I saw dan Harmon do his podcast live in la.
It was underwhelming.
Still waiting on this tony Bourdain.
That'll be the next one I see.
Never saw Hamilton but the heights trailer looked good.
john ralphio is the best character on that show.
Wtf is Wandavision.
The rule of two was pretty dope lore.
I read a Star Wars book about darth bane that was fire.
Bill burr is in mandolorian?.
Dumbledore dies!.
Its a great test as to whether you can do your own research.
If you think you can, youre too stupid.
just in time for the bye week.
great man.
how long till actual nba games start?.
I was like, why would the pelicans trade zion?.
last week i thought the suns were landing zion.
i get taken by all the nba trade bullshit rumors.
a nets sixers series would be nuts if that happened.
why would they do that?.
are they considering trading kyrie for ben?.
guess kyrie is just going to sit out instead of get vaxxe?.
All gas all hate.
two ass buckets being ass buckets.
I fucking hate that.
millenials in shambles.
eric strickland or gtfo.
simmons?.
who is marty going to watch play?.
bring in ricky.
send his ass to minnesota.
Ben sounds like a brat.
bill burr is great.
You got roots in philly?.
I cant remember.
second round exit tho.
Or did you make it 3?.
that and learning to d up.
These AAU kids are so fragile.
The ben simmons drama give me life.
yeah can they get out of his deal?.
midwest vs coastal elite.
The radio was saying you cant play in NYC if youre not vaccinated.
you can ask dwight all kinds of stuff as he tries to explain it..
theres no follow story of they get it..
he can go way out wide and stretch back in too.
its like three steps for him to get to the rim..
it was crazy.
at the end he was hitting turnarounds right in our face.
or double him when he gets it high and faces up.
once he starts stretching those legs you cant contest.
da needed to pick him up higher.
probably gave them an extra 8 a game..
went form like 40 to 80 percent.
thats true.
ny tough i mean unstoppable.
hes tough when hes hitting shots..
yall got giannis?.
Imagine stanning for ben simmons.
but that moment was real fun..
but it was just twitter bullish.
that was fun.
For a moment I thought Zion was coming to the suns.
heard zion is coming to the suns.
Zion to the suns?.
youll get russ westbrook and be happy about it.
no youll get a digruntled simmons who will suck.
Youll trade him next season when his value bottoms out.
Nebraskaball might be fun this year..
I was probably reading Twitter.
5 is the one and done?.
the zodiac killer?.
i dont know if he was kicking people in the nuts but people hated him.
was it that allen guy from duke?.
he was a gamer.
out of the nba chat history nerds.
what are they doing with ben?.
people put all this effort into chasing a dream and quit over some delusion.
Fuck curry.
Curry?.
I'd that petrovich.
Larry bird ray Allen Reggie Miller.
Petrovich?.
I meant what I said.
I hate giving anything Wisconsin related credit but giannis can join the Culver's cheese curds as the only two things from Wisconsin I respect.
Even when da was there he was knocking them down.
And his foul shots.
He was unstoppable.
He smoked us in the turnaround jumper.
giannis is the best till someone takes it from huim.
you get that call you go.
That's our words.
Soldiering up to play the nets.
chris is a sun now.
jealousy is an bad look for you marty.
he got there last season?.
okafor is still in the league?.
Embrace the hate.
You play in philly buddy..
They don't like him now he wants out.
Typical sooner.
get that anthony guy from minnesota.
fuck i thought the suns were getting larry nance jr..
cause mitchell gets to the hoop.
Donovan Mitchell is a stud..
Do we know if he's leaving yet?.
Extend the d a little but you live with him pulling up from extra deep.
You can't guard the deep three.
That's the one thing it has going for it.
Than chuck up a logo shot 6 seconds into the shot clock.
I'd rather make the defense work.
I'd rather have some people touch the ball..
Lost in 5 or did they take you six?.
Their best playmaker.
Murray.
He's awesome.
First round exit against a team without there best scorer.
How's embiid gonna feel when he gets a block runs the floor for dame to chuck up a long three.
He'll get hot and blow a team away no doubt.
But not in a seven game series..
You don't make the defense work at all.
It's just everyone he makes gets highlighted everyone he misses gets forgotten.
1/3 logo shots? Doubt.
Seems like a good dude tho.
He's doesn't play winning basketball.
He pulls up off a stop and bricks a three.
He still hits like 2/10 of them..
dame needs to come to phx and play behind paul for a year.
yall will be regular season gods.
and early exiters in the playoffs..
i really hope you get him and then watch him get switched onto the best offensive player and scored on over and over and over again.
must be getting ready to move him.
sounds like hes talking to dame directly.
the two best teams last year played hard defense got points in the paint and moved the ball well.
probably a good thing, cause youd just blow it on the coach k camp and pick up some infection.
doubt, but booker woulda probably put up 70 in a losing effort.
when your the greatest player ever and one the the top ten athletes of all time you dont sweat a single season when youre on your way to retirement.
i dont know if i have anything further to add tho.
reply away.
and ad was mad inconsistent when the suns rocked their shit.
he was only healthy for like a tenth of the season.
i know keyshawn was talking about having to get up really early for his radio show..
he probably starts making appearances really early.
hes an in bed by 8 kinda guy im sure.
hornets just giving up.
How tall is he?.
What an assmunch.
Fucking knicks.
Can they kick out Dolan?.
Did the knicks make any moves?.
Just saw lakers nets and started typing.
Lol didn't read it.
Yeah I can see that for sure.
Suns warriors will be fun..
I'm not sold on the hawks.
I do like that atl has a relevant team.
For best teams?.
That's probably true.
Celtics lakers knicks.
Celtics are the brand.
Hate Tatum.
That's why I left him out.
Luka? Celtics? Harden Durant kyrie? Lakers? Bring ad Russ?.
But yeah if you're talking best basketball.
Big night for the league they are bringing the big names.
You ain't gonna watch lakers nets on Xmas?.
i mean the twolves.
ending up in the trash heap.
I saw Marcus smart shoot like 22 threes and put up 40 on us live.
thats how different the money is i guess..
Yeah its the same sport but not the same business.
its like disney world for cats.
you should see the home they landed.
make a wish.
suns summer league 11-11 after the first quarter.
Can't believe they signed kaminsky and let Tory Craig walk.
I found a magic johnson dream team card that is pretty fire.
dream team or gtfo.
but college basketball sucks.
unless someone from your college team is playing.
thats deep in the game for sure.
poor effort by the mercury that game tho.
needless to say we wilded out.
last game i went to you got free tickets for spending 50 bucks at the local grocery chain.
Got like font row tickets with access to the club.
thought about buying one of the toys and seeing if a could get it autographed..
the white mamba correct?.
still remember them haven't looked at them in like twenty years.
just opened up my old shaq card collection.
I believe they say hoop now.
do actuaries ball?.
she has a road named after her so i hope.
my wife used to sell louie vuitton to her and griner as well.
definitey her.
looks like her at least cant read the jersey.
seen her live a couple times.
Shes really fucking good.
hova!.
they resigned frank.
yeah im siked about mcgee.
if they keep the same rotation where cp3 runs the point when the benches come on i can see some good things happening.
We just need someone who can rebound and body someone up when teams go big or when Ayton sits.
Milsap is tough.
I dont know how old he is now, but he always gives us trouble..
so they are making ridiculous demands.
they dont want to trade him.
the homers are saying milsap to the suns?.
shoulda kept him and dumped kaminsky but i think he was pricier?.
baynes was solid\.
remember when he had IT running the show?.
horrible run organization.
suns in four.
its always like why did we just sign allen houston to a thousand years.
its never like wow, good pick up.
they never make any good moves..
i dont know that he ever had star power.
Steph curry to the knicks.
Thats what I want to see.
i mean hes good but you need that big name for the knicks.
are we calling kemba a star?.
will the knicks ever land a star?.
knicks shoulda went after derozen.
bulls making some moves.
did Melo go to the lakeshow?.
Bringing back Abdul Nader.
thought thryd get a big name.
knicks fizzling out.
any news on simmons?.
they signed him for 4 years? interesting.
ahh i see.
ah i missed it.
little worried he might join kawhi somewhere.
is that just homer shit or have yall heard anything about it?.
Word is Chris paul is coming back to the Suns, but with a new deal that allows them to keep some peices going forward.
they were lazy as fuck when we played them.
NO had some attitude issues.
theyre on tv more than leave it to beaver reruns.
duke is duke.
Trust the process.
east is going to be tough at the top again.
Gotta imagine the nets come back stronger,.
you cant give up four straight possessions of beal getting worked on the switch.
you familiar with the work of frank kaminsky?.
shit can lose a playoff game faster than passing up an open dunk.
great until they force beal to switch onto tatum or some other scorer.
i could see beal but i dont know.
does he d up?.
sounds horrible.
crowded expensive and full of politicians.
somewhere there is a talented player on a shitty team in a shitty state who wants out.
why would houston care.
harden wanted to justice league with durant and kyrie.
scrambling to get a bradely beal.
now look at you.
you shoulda just picked up harden.
guys get over it.
orlando sounds like a team to dump him on.
or the pacers.
who does detriot have?.
ben is going to hate the sixers when they trade him.
everyone hates the jazz.
that dude can ball.
youre in the finals with mitchel.
they arent competing in the west ill tell you that much.
utah probably loves picks.
go out and get mitchel.
beal is interesting but i dont think hes as good as he played last year.
he was just on one.
he was fucking ice cold last year tho.
He destroyed us at least once..
why not dame?.
hes a st louis guy so i like beal but hes coming of a career year.
this is the last time.
im right there with scott frost.
i feel that.
what do you see getting for him?.
so thats promising.
knicks are ready to make moves.
he cant learn a post up?.
i guess i havent seen them play much.
all star in the east but whatever.
lock them in seven and structure it right they can pass the torch.
how old is simmons.
mm, so hes like in his prime next year.
how old is he?.
oh really feels like yesterday he was getting paid to go to kansas.
classic husker overreaction.
theyre both young.
you can have him and embiid for like 7 more years.
id just make ridiculuous offers to look like they looked into it so the fans dont riot and then keep him and keep building.
get him a sports psychologist and teach him how to shoot a fucking freethrow.
youre trading at his lowest.
they'd be stupid to trade simmons.
run that pick and roll to the rim.
Who remembers the one true Perkins..
Hang in there perk.
He woulda been god damn perfect.
Fuck I wanted Adams.
He's got that mamba mentality he's not trying to make friends.
Booker just got there 2 days ago.
Everyone stay calm.
Help is on the way.
I saw that live.
Die slow.
Maybe like Oklahoma's okst.
We all root for the huskers so we all understand.
He broke da after that foul game.
Da is still really young tho..
He turned it on.
You got to play him a lot.
Tbh I almost want to be a giannis fan.
Great to see big guys dominating.
Luckily he plays for lisconsin so I can resist.
Put him on the knicks please..
Then I started going to suns games and it was super fun.
Best live sport.
I went to one in Orlando when I was a kid and they weren't trying very hard.
It was like right before Christmas.
When every possession counts.
Nba has the best finishes.
Then I fell out.
Up until the heatles broke up.
I'd say the last time I followed followed other than the playoffs would be The thunder when they had harden Russ and Durant.
I'm digging it tho.
Only really started to follow the nba a couple years ago when my wife scored some sweet tickets to the suns game.
So I gotta build my landscape.
Or at least that's how I plan to approach it..
They are always the inferior team.
But yes sometimes the luck out and beat us.
I'll end the nba season by saying the lakers and the spurs are the suns true rivals.
But the nuggets are our Iowa.
It's been a long time since I followed a winning team.
Great season..
Suns fans got a little taste of a Wisconsin road trip.
Duck those people..
Monty is the best..
I fucking hate wisc.
Giannis to the knicks.
I can't remember.
Before this one?.
He put up forty thevladt two games?.
When he's hitting that fade and his free throws he's ungaurdable.
Suns in 4 forever.
Big up giannis.
That was something.
hope we see some ball movement in the 4th.
not just devin trying to draw a foul.
man im dying here.
nice guy when he was being a nuggets fan..
met a nuggets fan in sedona last weekend.
we dont want to start the night this way.
No way I disappear in the football off season.
Chris is going off.
Get a big who can actually hold his own down low.
Frank can't be here next year.
Gotta fucking rebound.
Monty will have them ready to play.
Desperation time.
We need to see a point god game from Chris.
Just need this one.
Ai forever.
He was nailing that fade.
Deandre played him pretty well on a few and he still knocked it down..
Giannis is a monster.
Wonder how much we'll have to pay cam Payne.
Nba players are banking.
Is that a normal contract.
That guy was making 17 million?.
Chris Paul is going off next game.
Basketball sucks.
Fucking kris Middleton.
He's going for 6 on the road next game.
Giannis is basically Orlando Shaq.
Good finals.
Going seven.
Thank god suns caught home court advantage..
Trade him for dame.
I hate them so much.
Lol fans are shouting bucks in six.
How can you be an 7 foot nba player and offer nothing.
Ayton with that quick 4 killed us.
Good for the nba I guess.
Naw bucks are good.
I wanted that 4.
I'm not worried long term.
Gotta hit shots.
Yeah not night tonight.
He's wretched.
Holy shit cam.
Mid range jumpers taking over.
Right on cue.
That's dope.
Morant is a monster.
Nugget fans tho.
Nugget fans are going to be extra dehydrated.
From all the salt.
Pretty tame tonight.
Naw I'm doing yard work in camp verde tomorrow.
They got a good team.
What? How did Taylor get suspended.
Nichols contract?.
You are all filth compared to dbook.
Gtfo of suns central with this bullish.
I'm taking van gundy all day.
TNT is miller? Or van Grundy...
They made all of this....
Don't come one here disrespecting espn.
But I didn't the last two.
I used to watch regardless before I had an nba team I was following hard.
I'm more about the love of the game.
I mean I'm watching but I can't say I remember who does what..
They stayed with Nichols then?.
Uncomfortable.
Who is Maria Taylor.
I get the p bev part.
What's the context.
Then he just bullies them straight to the bucket and muscles it in..
He'll get it in the post against some seven footer and it's like where is he going with this.
Watching him work dudes playing a foot below the rim is a thing of beauty.
Pour one out for super Dario.
Warrior all year and bubble monster.
Out in the first two minutes on the floor that has to suck.
Get the brooms out.
Cp3 might not let them win.
I'll spare you.
Shit was supposed to be the new Zane Zor suns rap..
Lopez is pretty good.
Monte is a high character guy the young guys respect.
Tory Craig they got for cash considerations.
Then they brought in some guys like cam Payne was out of the league till the bubble.
Yeah he was a really good pickup.
They'd flash this but then they'd drop three straight to sub five hundred teams.
They're also all high buy in guys that have great chemistry and good work ethics..
He can be the clear leader..
They're young which has been good for chris Paul..
Just watched the last dance ep 1 confirmed false.
It's true in every sport the healthiest teams have an edge.
I'm still celebrating at 100 percent if we win.
Bucks bringing it.
When was lebron out? He played all 7.
We missed Chris Paul for the two games they won.
It was an easier route to a finals compared to what it woulda been in a tough conference..
I actually like pat bev he played well against us but that was just shitty..
Phx 4 lyfe.
Y'all weak as fuck.
Dont come around here talking shit about Pfs who can't play a lick of d and are softer than my couch.
Fuck Colorado forever.
Fuck Colorado tomorrow.
Fuck Colorado today.
Fuck Colorado.
That's salt if you didn't catch it.
The forty percent who aren't baked off their ass.
Live look at the city of Denver.
I'm on twelve.
It's now confirmed.
Y'all suck and are not as good as  us suns fans.
This is karma.
give him a couple moments.
naw masker is working hard.
lets gooooo!!!!.
fixed that too.
I think we see the problem.
it happens.
bryce is transfering.
thats good.
benhart getting some work.
we won on the third touchdown.
we are getting good pressure.
get morrison and scott in.
it makes the game less stressful.
it is weird.
how good is q nes.
henrich looks like hes gonna be an all conference guy.
hes the difference between a 4 yard play in the flat and a 12.
is reimer our best player on defense?.
out linerbackers close out soo fast.
hes had like 3 in the last 2 weeks.
just mentally shaky.
we are good.
get these 2s in!.
THIS IS SOOOO MUUUUCCCCHHHH FFFFFFUUUUUUNNNNN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
woooooooooooooooo.
woooooooooo.
wooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.
woooooooooooooooo.
woooooooooooo.
Ctb wants a pick badly.
Best frost game?.
I don't think even we could blow this one.
D is nasty.
Play calling is clean.
Progress is clear.
Sorry monken stans.
Frost has already earned an extension.
They are running behind teddy a lot.
Oline is killing it.
Let's go yant.
He's pressing.
Maybe he just lost him.
Maybe he was supposed to have help.
These games are always close cause Fitzgerald is a damn.
Good coach.
Fitzgerald noticed something?.
Wooooooooo.
They had their chance.
No train hoppers!!.
Let's fucking go friends let's fucking go.
That's why you live with the over throws.
Geezus he's so fast.
What was that?.
He's better than I thought.
What the duck.
He's got feet.
Fisher knew him.
As a walk on.
I like this.
That was big missing him.
Martin thank god he's back.
He shoulda got a chance.
Crouch was the fastest dude on earth.
And quit on the rams.
It was he wanted to play an in the nfl.
Watch them get sick of tackling him.
Oline change works.
Let's go!!!.
Dd is going pro.
He brings size and power other backs don't.
Yant is Ron Dane.
He didn't run through contact like this.
He's big and hard to tackle like every other carry he's ever taken.
We max hyping!!!.
It's happening.
Apologize to yant!!!!.
Apologize to yant!!!!!.
Apologize to yant!!!!!'n.
Apologize to yant!!!!!!!!.
Our linebackers close out guys fast.
I don't think he finished his drop back..
Stars showing up early 2am toure jojo ctb.
What formation was that?.
It's coming.
Good run by rahmir walk in for Adrian.
Ran it in in too.
Changes on the line.
We are about to put it together.
End this game.
Get a fucking pick six.
I love football.
Lovely game.
Here we go.
They moved Corcoran.
Yeah we are beating them and Purdue and Michigan and northwestern and osu and Iola..
This was the year to not suck ass.
Wisc not good Minnesota not good.
Interesting.
great movie.
Nice.
Why are you wildin out on a Monday?.
Not doing orders anymore.
Ever since I lost my play streak and 4 stars I'm just attacking Iowa.
Did we win?.
Chaos doesn't really defend tho right? We should be taking ever chaos territory we can get to.
Sometimes the auto correct knows best.
Yet I saw tomato and left it.
We need to move in a circle.
Like the rotation of a tomato and we can rip through the plains.
Make 300 more of those and we are in business.
You the real mvp.
Yet you continue to input your moves.
That's my thought as well.
I think the reaction would be fun for a couple days.
New Nebraska is meh Texas.
That's the old Nebraska.
Drunk obnoxious jealous bitter.
Mizzou fans are worst.
The Texas thing never made sense..
We need to stop.
It was cathartic.
I do miss really truly hating something once a year.
If Colorado and Missouri came back too.
I would be down for a return to the twelve.
Texas is gone.
And when you compare them with Michigan pennstate and Ohio state they weren't that bad.
All the ties from the past need to be cut loose.
Let's come out of this quarantine with a hard reset.
If we are the most hated team in cfb risk than Texas has to be a close second.
Ally with Texas.
I think at the very least they might be distracted.
Seeing that Nebraska in Wisconsin meme made me like risk again.
That's a win to me..
Them focus on Michigan.
Make Michigan defend against them.
If Ohio state and am team up I think that's good for us.
Honestly I don't know if I could handle it.
It's been so long since ive connected Nebraska with winning.
I like this new direction.
That explains why our previous strategy failed.
What is our strategy going forward?.
Let's play it low key.
Let them and Ohio state kill Michigan while we work on wisc.
I have no idea how to play this game..
Looks like we could still kill Stanford before we get snuffed.
It's easy on the computer.
Pain in the ass on my phone for some reason.
Lame ass mascots.
The Lawrence (shit was that his name I can't remember) no, no man response to the Monday's question is one of the best lines ever.
Great delivery..
> mike judge makes some great fucking movies.
@Jey  mike judge is quietly on of the best to ever do this..
> No let nebraska go it's pointless.
@NotAFanof_SpeacialTeamsTeams  the fuck did you just say?.
Helms deep strategy.
Then let's take back the holy land give everything else up..
Yeah ohiostate looks to have it pretty well in hand.
Radio silence.
We still got territories.
Let's consolidate Northern California and defend until people forget about us.
It's why Indiana comes in all fires up to play us..
Everyone wants to take down a blue blood and we are easiest target.
The husker curse.
Play the game and let people come to us.
We are too into the alliance nap stuff.
Think we should have been pushing north west.
How did things fall apart so quickly.
It's like watching a husker football game.
We need to move to solidify the nwest.
Tam needs to head to the southwest..
Everyone said not yet.
I said take out the trees.
Plan from the start should have been to bum rush the west coast wipe out the trees and put the board on notice.
Which is okay cause I get to attack.
But is kinda weak cause I don't hate any Alaska football teams.
I got orders for Alaska.
They are playing us for fools!! 
Clear the trees Florida and asu and sweep the left coast.
We got them surrounded.
Why don't we just kill the trees in the next two turns?.
Nwestern w, Purdue w.
Then you need two more..
I don't know what they can do but We has everything we needed but a line.
They have to change something up tho.
Banks in for piper.
Move Corcoran inside start prochezka.
But the line looks lost..
I feel like this is going to give guys confidence.
Adrian played his heart out.
The defense is good.
Betts looked good.
Omar looked good.
We left a lot of opportunities on the field.
Our kicker is twisted up inside.
Our oline is weak.
You can't lose if you don't play.
I think we've had this convo? Do we have some kinda bet in place?.
alledgedly.
in the first six.
ou is my 1 loss.
8 is a good number.
actually maybe not 9.
so thats 7 with michigan wisconsin iowa.
osu is a loss.
5-1 to start.
We still get purdue and minne..
ill names them.
this is some hype.
Lets see what happens after our 9 win season.
keeping players will be important going forward.
something they got to figure out but i dont think its as atypical as people think.
I am concerned that the offense loses so many guys and the defense not as much.
we play in the west.
we arent competing with the top school right now..
I am concerned how much talent was on the bench cause they didn't know the plays.
But it was a short off season.
need to get the culture down to acclimate new people quickly.
People are going to leave with the transfer rules.
its almost like there are other talented players out there you can bring in.
wandale stings but we definitely get better at wr regardless..
i cant think of another.
JD in a coaching transition and Wandale...
next man up.
we are stacked with talent.
your in the wrong channel.
we could run a bottled up offense but we'd be giving away our talent advantage.
we have talent.
Penalty free football is for schools like northwestern.
that happens when you go fast.
and he played for okst..
you didnt have any upperclassman who knew how to win till old dd got here.
gotta get guys in and teach them how.
abbreviated offseason.
ill take toure coming in with one shot to make the pros.
and why its taken so long.
thats a sign of frost gettting a shitty hand.
he shouldnt have been a captain.
wandale was 2 years in the program.
For a team that needs to "learn to win" this schedule sets up perfectly..
We are starting this season 5-1..
you dont know theres turmoil in the teams leadership..
I dont think the athletic department will factor in.
Frost has 4 years of recruiting classes at the top of the division..
I dont know who the key leaders we lost were.
Luke? Wandale? Id rather have upperclassmen leading.
The defense is stacked with leadership..
Lets see what happens with a full roster, and full offseason to rev up..
Frost can ride this D through the first half of the season if he needs to.
I dont think he will need to.
But thats all speculative..
this is the year.
plenty of reasons to think frost flips this thing around.
Best D we've had in years.
4 year starter at qb.
Ton of talent at the skill positions.
Full off season.
Schedule is backloaded.
the season will change your mind.
legit stance.
for no reason really.
for some reason.
im not going to make it easy.
i can respect that.
stick to your guns.
fair enough.
i can only appeal to your self respect.
Or Hype out.
No fence sitting..
no half stepping.
I thought we shamed you people to extinction.
an actual somehyper?.
$nebraska @NotaPologizingto_Yant.
Great post.
Where would it get 14%.
These bots are killing it.
That's some hype as fuck.
Assertions were made but I did not see facts.
Put it in an article and let frost respond you  ard.
Sean Callahan popping off on his vip message board is not news.
Frost agrees.
Sunshine over snowfall.
It's cold as fuck there.
Much better to watchnebraska on the tv.
The line will be fine the tight ends will be fine the qbs will be fine the WRs will have some playmakers but the running backs have to step up in a big way..
Some hype season predictions.
Illinois 42-38 huskers.
Buffalo - 30-17 huskers.
Oklahoma - 45-42 huskers Adrian goes 200 on the ground..
MSU - 37-15 huskers.
Nwestern - 20-21 nw we shank a game winning field goal..
Michigan 23-17 Nebraska .
Minnesota 38-20 Nebraska.
Purdue 31 - 34 Purdue.
Ohio state - we lose I won't give the score.
Se la- 27 -17 this gets scary we are on the ropes.
Wisconsin - 35-6 fuck Lisconsin we are taking this shit.
Mertz isn't it..
Iola - 28-27 Nebraska..
9 wins but we don't win the division.
Yeah that appears to be a rendering of a penis.
Oh the painting?.
Some hype to brighten your day.
12 tds this season.
Second round draft pick..
Some hype Omar manning!.
I was showing my wife how I hype.
Go big red...
I'm counting down the seconds until we win a championship.
I'm coming out of the hyperbolic some hype time chamber like....
The musing of a man mastering his hype.
through gifs and predictions of greatness.
how is hype.
21 for sure.
when is hype.
who is hype.
to combat the growing sadness.
why is hype.
energy?.
excitement?.
What is hype?.
im gonna put a pin in this until i can get back on my phone to post gifs.
my comp is not so good at it.
its centering.
but im okay with that.
it would be me talking to myself.
then unleash it.
conceal the channel until the oklahoma game.
clear any of the remaining riff raff.
i think thats step number one.
I should have ban powers.
the place to come to get some hype..
we need to pivot.
a blank canvas.
Some hypers on their koolaid cheat day.
Ah those are good ones.
Max hype:.
oh has it always been a gif.
I just deleted the mobile app.
going straight comp.
how did you get your profile to gif?.
we makes it sound like theres multiple somehyping.
Collecting rings while never playing a snap.
Some hype is for casuals!.
I am that gif.
It's a done deal.
Naw frost has never lost a bowl game.
Cheez it bowl!.
We woulda won anyway.
I'm counting it as a victory then.
Did they cancel bowl games?.
If we count a bowl victory.
5-4 max hype.
Not gonna happen.
Then destroy.
They would come to max hype to say that if they didn't want to feel hype again.
Unless it's chonks or Deere.
They are cries for help.
As long as they are on the train.
It's been a tough season.
Wtf is this wack ass bullish.
Put it right beside coors for best domestic.
At the bar I used to go to that was their cheap beer.
cold.
yeah, wonder what those states are like.
and rhode island?.
delaware is by maryland?.
not delaware.
the two on top between maine and newyork would be new hampshire and..
its the north east i might have trouble with.
Chili's is the best of those types of restaurants.
is that hugh freeze?.
Sounds like your setting people up for disappointment.
that has to be like yelling fire in a theater.
I really don't hate cyclists I just love the memes.
Guess it depended on what music videos you were in to.
If you weren't sagging in the 9os early 00s what were you doing.
It was the style.
are the 70 years olds into podcasts now?.
Except for Minecraft.
No room for lames.
Lotta people wanted to jump on that suns bandwagon.
I honestly hate when people root for the team I like.
Unless you're 100.
That's how I rock my summers.
Live everyday like it's Friday.
Can phones read minds? It's probably not the case but it seems like it.
We don't do those in AZ.
In ten years we'll all be begging the Chinese for jobs via tik tok resume.
Meme point stands.
These smash capitalism children are woefully unaware..
Fuuuccckk that's a ton of slow pokes.
Remove that vomit.
Marty with the rack of strawberries?.
Step outa your comfort zone.
You gotta ask.
He might let you bring him beer to his dock.
This is what it should look like.
They are wearing them down.
Let's go!!!!!!!!!.
Ahh haha haha.
I expected more than this.
Why?.
cinema sucks.
sounds like protesting.
protesters protest.
I dont see how it was harrassment.
I like that bill.
Y'all like that?.
Is that a pay article o could only read two paragraphs.
Decentralize better than government ownership.
Never that.
Might be progressive there.
I'm also for getting legal status for people who are living here illegally for years..
Yeah I'm for free community college, universal pre k, although impact after third grade is debateable, big on single payer health care.
Some might consider those progressive..
Why are uncomfortable saying that? Doesn't seem like a controversial thing to say..
Taxuaries might be the only thing worse than actuaries.
John Stewart daily show was iconic.
Hard follow..
That could be the same with me.
but humor is subjective.
Hes not even funny to me.
John stewart was the shit.
New daily show guy sucks.
New daily show sucks..
theres a new john stewart show?.
I could fix a toilet.
You said do research I don't have a ton of time.
So I assumed you had research to share.
Just send me a link to the YouTube vid...
I mean research.
Where would you recommend starting?.
I'm not really qualified to evaluate it.
So I go with what they are recommending.
That cant be real.
Or are they just straight stealing it.
I'm not for it.
Just to be clear.
But could they justify it that way?.
How soon do you think covid is going away?.
Spreading our prisoners to Alleviate over crowding might help fight covid?.
rip.
people need to realize how dumb they are.
Once I figured that out everything else fell into place..
People thinking they can independent "research" things cause they have google is like 90 percent of the problem.
Feel like if we had nba level of compliance this would be done.
You think if we had a strong vaccine response the pandemic would be over?.
and im speaking from my understanding of things.
So I wont say I'm accurate thats just my sense.
the more strenuous life is the less a political bill moves the needle.
unless your talking about direct payments again..
yeah im doing better than a lot of the families i work with.
Maybe they'll get energized by it but youd be surprised.
i like it all, but maybe cause im past getting a degree i dont really respond to it..
i think thats a good idea.
I woulda liked free community college.
Poor people are getting free pre k.
im not well off.
I make salary money and have benefits which is better than where i was in my twenties..
thatd fire people up.
i like it but idk.
no emotional response attached to it..
how many voters have college age kids that would get extra pell grants?.
like thers no lobbiest group for free community college and universal pre k.
i could be wrong tho.
thats the stuff that moves the needle.
Feel like its kinda abstract..
not like hey my taxes went up, or hey they want to control my body.
but a lot of people want to send their kids to four years for some reason.
the community college thing i really like..
most people get pre k, they do in our district if they want it..
I like the stuff in it, but its not something that will impact a ton of voters.
whats the process on that is a a vote in congress?.
i disagree.
no one knows what that is or cares.
I think the abortion fight will be big, maybe the dems will try to pack the courts if it doesnt get thrown out..
theres going to be something big that happens there always is.
I dont think the infrastructure bill will move the needle.
I remember that ass.
The tea party are the ones who figured out you could draft legislation templates to give the the state governments to push into law.
Fucking bags.
they worship regan the god not regan the actual person.
tax pledges.
fuckin youths.
why is the democratic base so young and their politicians so old?.
the other side would do it too if republicans run a geriatric.
it was an election tactic, it still is.
They did the same thing to hillary..
that doesnt sound like person suffering from mental decline.
ive heard stories about how hell have people debate issues for extended periods of time.
I think having to speak or answer questions on the fly is tough for him.
Doesnt mean he cant process information he gets and make a decision if he actually listens to advice from his experts.
naw old man biden is more dangerous cause theyll underestimate him.
more drugs then.
yes of coures.
i dont think hes bad mentally.
i just think hes a shitty public speaker.
why wouldnt you? you have a crazy schedule and a job that requires a lot of focus.
all the big time movers and shakers are drugged up.
people get up for that.
hell get hit with it but is a botched withdrawl going to fire up the base? I think the abortion fight will shape this election more than any geo politics.
he might be cause hes old.
but they can pump you full of prescriptions and shit.
ive heard republicans who want to say hes senile say that.
i havent seen him say that.
yeah but thats not changing your vote.
most people wanted to leave.
we sure they didnt tell him that and he said.
We are puling out anyways?.
all they do is watch netflix and pretend they are broke dicks when they are fully yuppified.
Americans are soft as fuck..
Crooked Kristen Sinema at it again.
Twitter is good for that stuff.
Sinema sucks.
I woulda voted Mcsally.
Sinema had the olds on her side.
They came hard on some vote they said got rid of medicare or something wild.
I cant remember now but it was a lot of sad and angry old people commercials..
in the world.
maybe your personal finance situation is different than that of the largest economy in the nation.
my favorite is the I have to balance my budget or i wont be able to pay my bills argument you see people make.
through bonds or to the state governments.
i thought i heard that somewhere.
Isn't most of the debt to the states?.
They might and we say no u.
Great the debt ceiling thing is back.
The dems dont use it cause they spent years telling their constituents how irresponsible it is to use it.
can't ddouble back now..
My friends I'm St.
Louis lived above an angel store in south city.
With a lift and shit.
Buy like a professional garage that has an apartment over it.
But a garage with an apartment over it.
I mean if your talking about apartments and large unit developments not renting out to keep rent high I could see that.
You think so? I'm not sure..
Build more homes move to virtual work so people leave the cities and demand relaxes.
We are trying to solve the housing crisis here.
Owning is better than renting for sure.
He's saying he wants that to change.
Like depreciate homes like cars so people won't buy them as investments.
It's not a slow poke situation.
Dude scroll up.
That's kinda like rent.
But if your house doesn't appreciate you are basically paying rent.
Your not building your wealth you just paying a mortgage for a place to stay.
Who wants to live in Fremont tho..
Maybe virtual work will send more people to Fremont instead of Omaha.
Lessen up the demand there and increase the Fremont prices.
Both good..
We do need to lower housing costs I'm not sure how much of it is house hoarding, how much is spec houses and how much is the number of people with money to buy houses has grown and everyone wants to move to certain areas..
And it's not like cars where they stop working.
I don't think it would be possible cause its not just the house it's the land.
Sounds like that would just push people out of homeownership and take away the best way for a working man to grow his money..
Why do you want that?.
Jobs are for suckers.
Like me unfortunately..
most of it is the same person.
Unless you are owning developments.
people hate work but want everyone to be stuck working a job.
but doing all the things required to rent and keep up a rental house is..
You dont think there should be a rental option?.
You think large landlords are the issue?.
to i guess discourage people from making their money off being a landlord.
how to change property tax.
this is just an idea ben had.
more than 3 rentals was the suggestion i believe.
but most people live with large scale landlords id assume.
feel like this will make rent higher.
closest i could get.
They think theres votes to get..
bird flu was really killing 50 percent of people?.
what is that thing.
jesus 80%?.
who the fuck is janet.
Its a good book, but it takes some commitment to read it through.
Yeah years ago.
infinite jest had quebec separatist terrorists.
Sometimes the hiring process takes awhile and you got a family you need to keep afloat.
If you needed it you'd get it.
I don't see the issue.
It's temporary..
It's good to have a career job..
Unemployment isn't a long term strategy.
Angela Merkle is stepping down after 15 years.
That's insane that people live like that..
Weird cause the fake news said some guy named Durham is indicting Obama Gate conspirators.
Feel like everywhere used to test and now less do.
And sars causes pandemics.
Think they get sars and sars jumps to humans.
They said it in Silicon Valley.
The cover up continues.
im not sure.
to get the most views?.
I think you're correct.
Checkmate atheists.
Think churches restyle most of them.
They had a big Kurdish population in the school I student taught at.
Lol called ted beautiful ted.
That's pretty go.
Called bill wild bill Clinton.
But Crooked Hilary hit.
Naw people looked past the nicknames that second go.
dude did not like comey much.
i guess they got them all on wiki.
that was it.
trying to remember the republican primary.
he had one for marco and ted cruz?.
sleepy joe was good too.
AOC plus three was one of the best trumpisms.
rebuild the parties.
need the republicans to come to the center.
that one on filmore is actually pretty nice 3 bed 2 bath.
neighborhood might be a little rough tho.
I dont mind that too much..
those are actually really good deals.
but yeah pricing is still pretty good out there.
im not moving to iowa.
sounds like a good chance to open up a bar restaurant.
maybe with work from home people can move out of the cities and spread the fuck out.
you cant get anything below 200 anymore and there arent a lot of those.
be like man hes right but hes a little too far out.
where was the sane candidate to pick that up and run with it.
no they laughed at his mustache and made him an internet meme.
you need something to call your own.
duplexes are a good option but people buy those to rent out.
everybody laughed at the rent is too damn high guy but he hit it on the nose.
cost of medical care and cost of rent are killing us.
we need more houses i guess.
they sold a manufactured house across the street for me for like 250k and as soon as the sign went up buyer after buyer after buyer were coming through.
a lot of rich people.
then a lot of developers flipping shit too i guess.
youd be surprised.
would they? people are buying houses sight unseen for double what they were worth a year ago, going over asking price cause so many people want a house right now.
yeah but people with less income will never afford a house.
yeah we need more houses for sure.
Wonder if they did rental vouchers instead of section 8 that places wont accept if youd get less income segregation.
we need some fixes.
which policies?.
If youre losing your income cause of restrictions a year is a long time.
housing is ridiculous..
they are getting sold but its not a good deal.
basically a trailer park with houses.
manufactured houses but you dont own the land so you pay another 1000 in rent a month.
they are doing this in arizona too now.
they are passive aggressive complainy.
yeah its huge.
not very friendly.
bunch of assholes tbh..
californians suck and are ruining probably the best state in the union if it wasn't so full of californians is my other stand.
Newsome is an assmunch is my stand.
The lock downs have been pretty intense there.
Probably good to take a vote and make sure you have a consensus.
misfire.
deontres mom thinks we can win it.
not admitting a heart attack is different than not meeting standards of care.
 that seems wild.
Why are they turning away heart attacks.
Fire up those tent hospitals for civics.
cause bin laden was in pakistan and al queda was training in afghanistan.
Congress and getting nothing done.
Is that a reference to something?.
People with options will quit.
That's the real story.
Guy on internet claims to have made 120k.
Easier to get people to comply if their job is on the line.
alright gotta bounce.
i feel like we have.
im thinking we are going to be managing this pandemic for the forseeable future.
eh im not too hopefull.
thats my understanding as well.
significantly.
if you spread it it is, but apparently vaccinated people have specifically less spread.
or thats what the district i work for thinks.
people are getting it from their relatives at home.
is my line of thinking.
become more dominant.
the strains that affect young kids will spread faster.
cause they arent vaccinated.
none.
next mutation is gonna hit young kids, then we'll see where these people stand.
india got rocked.
but if thats 75% youd think the overall wouldnt be so high, or maybe it is way lower when you compare it to before.
shoudl still slow it down youd think.
thought it was like 50%.
and this shit is still spreading?.
arent we only like 50 percent vaxxed.
if they have a police presence.
it wont amount to much.
lets see what happens when they actually have security on hand.
not you of course.
you shoulda came with a plan you knew you could get all the dems to back.
they are good about holding the line.
itll happen as the left swings way left.
more and more center rights are turning dem.
i could see that.
like disaster relief that has to come quick.
tbh i dont even know what would be appropriate for an executive order or not.
they cant even get their own party to back it.
they cant even pass an infrastructure bill.
thanks obummer.
the two previous presidents were doing the same thing, its just par for the course now.
its a very shortterm way of governing when the first order of business for a new president is undueing all the old presidents execuative orders.
but congress cant pass anything.
the whole executive order thing is out of control.
they love to complain tho.
I dont know, just seems like itll be year 107 of covid if we dont get people vaxxed.
if its some bullshit political point scoring.
If they think it will get vaccination rates up im fine with it..
you just got to learn how to do it, like anything else.
I enjoy it..
special education.
not personally but i helped her set it up online and suggested she go get one.
i did get my aide and her family vaxed last year.
but not a big circle.
my circle is pretty well vaxxed.
yeah, hes trying tho.
i biden squashes this covid thing this year hes got my vote.
agree to disagree i guess, but its not just christians getting accommodated.
for every religion.
or as close as we can get to that.
protecting religious freedoms is pretty important to live together harmoniously.
congrats now take your slowpoke!.
its a shame.
thought it was gonna come with a bunch of upgrades to keep us covid safe too.
yeah depends on your district i guess.
i see so reconciliation has like a tax reform angle.
youd think itd just coast.
surely every senator congress person could go back to their constituents with some fat contracts to give out.
theyre going to blow it.
seemed like a great chance to upgrade somethings.
the progressives want that?.
what is reconcilation.
I like pools i can stand in.
i wouldn't recommend it.
it sounds like a lot of fun.
You can got tubing here on the salt creek.
is that still swimming or is that floating?.
i dont care for it.
they say swimming is a great low impact exercise.
maybe come up with a childcare bill or something.
Lets just let our bridges crumble then.
current or something? I dont know.
They probably dont handle that well.
thats a name i havent thought of in a minute.
Was it a Fox News persona maybe?.
Rick perry?.
It was someone crazy...
I do remember that.
Was that Santorum?.
Minority report.
fucking airlines and government money.
ill try.
sounds unlikely but sure..
then i should have some oil money coming.
most of them were saudis.
oh i hope not.
or it was biden who was going to take down the deep state not trump, and this is his first shot fired.
or knew it was gonna happen and did nothing.
probably just something rah rah for the 20th year aniversary.
we gone see some shit?.
thats a pretty large amount of time if he serves it all.
i dont know how many incidents would fall under that just give them a ticket rule maybe not that many but a lot of things seem to escalate when they start trying to arrest people right on the spot..
I think there are some things they could do like having a mental health team that responds to people who are mentally ill.
Which a lot of places are starting.
And then I think we take too many people out of a car and try to arrest them when we could ticket them to appear and send them home.
Like really narrow down what type of stuff is something you need to arrest people and take them away and what can you ticket them and take care of later in a less dangerous situation..
theyre trained armed and working as a team usually.
youd expect more people to get shot by cops than shoot and kill cops.
but it reminded me of it and then boom there it was on the gif search.
wasnt sure if you were making a reference to the pork grind? pork grind.
the best..
Shes trying to be good at her job.
Which is good campaigning..
is that something youd be interested in?.
dont you dare.
so a labor union can sue on behalf of people not in a union?.
i hate the bill but i also hate the sideways approach.
typical husker fan, living in the past.
wash your hands of that mess.
just move outa state.
feel like the left has a disdain for white poor people..
understandable.
i dont have a great memory tho.
i remember hearing that years ago.
inflation is way up, but i think its a lot with covid fucking making shit more expensive.
think he said black people face more struggles in life and the 3rd distract went all rabble rabble and voted him out.
he didnt do so hot at ad.
america will never be great again until the huskers are great again.
or cause of the nebraska game.
cause of texas?.
or it coulda been npr just trying to wind me up for the ratings.
I think it has to get a ruling is the hold up, instead of just getting shut down?? i dont know a lot about the law, but i got a lot of things to say about it i guess.
the law changed that in this instance?.
it makes sense if your trying to do some slick shit.
its garbage..
fuck the man.
i vote out every judge when i vote.
Cap cap cap cap cap.
He should get fired for another five w season.
Just so he knows he sucks..
Using it to calibrate my hype.
Just assessing the state of the Nebraska fan base.
Oh god.
Lol let the big dog lead.
Who is g lam?.
I'm everywhere.
Is that a dig at frost or trump.
Giving in to the pressure.
I stress eat too.
He's let himself go.
It's concerning.
6 wins and a bowl does not break the apathy.
We need to win the division fast.
Then get your ass back in max hype.
Do you respond to every Nebraska tweet with let's see it on the field?.
Understandable.
Cleanse it of all things black and gold then leave 97 stalks of corn on your porch.
I'll pass over your house.
Anything that has been stained by the tigers.
The ten west plays the field position game well.
Absolutely.
If we score one more big touchdown against Iowa or Wisconsin that we follow up by allowing a st touchdown I am burning mizzou to the ground.
Or it seems like it.
Our special teams play has been the worst in recorded history under frost.
Ty.
Baseball = no hype.
we'll be the ones to bring attention to it.
iowa fan made that list.
wisconsin didnt get on either.
if thats not wrong i dont want to be not right.
If Adrian goes down how do we get the ball to Omar?.
If you can find me.
I might go into the winds..
I will lose my shit if we start 4-0 and don't make a bowl game.
If we start 1-2 I'll join you.
when did winstrom go?.
Lol Indiana.
cap that cap.
You've been lied to.
I actually had the same thought but didnt post it.
Definitely seemed like a message to frost.
I dont know if its cause of the oklahoma thing which frost had no hand in but this 6 win stuff is bullshit in year 4..
ugh long night.
Making all the right moves.
prove me wrong.
nebraska vs nebraska is the purest form of football.
Didn't realize where I was.
no hype on meetings.
Football and .....
Sounds kinda hypefull.
They don't like that around here.
Would you take max 6 win seasons if once every 5 you go undefeated.
But that one season tho.
Ugh.
What color is  ard.
Honestly as long as I have a color no one else has I'm fine.
Packer backer?.
I'm also a super secret Vikings fan and a taco hater so you can see how much my roles mean.
I'm done liking things.
He doesn't tho.
Wins and losses will be what fires frost not some message board bullshit.
There's a war going on outside no hype is safe from.
I remember very little.
I see everything.
not enough run game with the backs..
to many negative plays.
too many early incompletions..
you can run a hurry up with less moving parts.
At some point they need to be able to run his offense.
Year three i thought they'd be clicking a bit..
We are a year out from wrecking teams but frost will continue to hamstring us with horriblly inconsistent play on offense..
you can just watch the games and see us beat guys up front..
You cant put too much stock in those stats when the defense plays so many snaps and the offense stalls out for entire halfs and and puts them in shitty field position..
Seen him coach iowa lite.
anyone who thinks campbell would be better than frost is delusional.
Iowa lite does not equal nebraska.
campbell is garbage.
im here to no hype campbell.
just truth.
we have the best d in the division next year.
youre not excited about these linebackers?.
when have we ever been good doing anything else.
frost just needs to realize nebraksa is two things, a qb run team and a suffocating defense.
hed get eaten alive by the husker faithful.
replace him with russel westbrook.
thats part of the problem.
frost is play 8 d chess and everyone else is playing football..
if the fans are thinking what the fuck each play call imagine what the other coaches are thinking.
gotta keep them guessing.
nebraska football has all the high expectations and none of the regional recruiting advantages.
its a big job.
frost is learning.
theres more to it than mario..
They havenn't gone down field all year.
Then frost decides to heave it up three times on a vital drive.
which is maybe why we werent going deep.
that was the first game we tried to go deep.
its not like hes had much chance to practice..
I thought he's looked much better decision and processing.
Making the throws in on adrian.
cant blame adrians collapse on him.
that was a roster thing.
hes bringing in studs..
he hurt his shoulder.
hes made strides in making better decisions.
One game he was off on the deep ball doesn't mean much..
adrian is a beast of an athlete who had a lot of work to do to process the offense.
taylor had to go for outside help.
where we wanting them to fire the qb coach when tommy or taylor were here?.
its too cold and windy out here.
We win by running with the qb.
still lost a lot of games.
on frost or him.
year one he had a veteren team and a strong running game and no tape.
yeah you couldnt say that about last year.
when have we ever had that kind of qb?.
Adrian needed to be more decisive and accurate on the timing passes.
I argue that point.
im not putting it on mario.
yeah we are horrible.
minnesota sucks balls.
he couldnt, now he can.
downfield he was rough but he was hurt and it was cold.
im talking the swings and screens and high percentage passes.
watch the throws.
he couldnt do those for jack year two and first half of year one.
2am looks way better at the timing passes.
minus the second half of last game which im pretty sure he got hurt.
adrian has improved the second half of this year.
we need to dump this bullshit offense.
no one had tape.
the first half of minne he was straight dealing.
after he got benched.
2am has looked much better this year.
Frost is ruining the offense by running an offense you have to have perfect execution to run.
before that he's looked great.
thats why his second half sucked..
martinez hurt his shoulder in the game.
Mario is fine.
Yeah, i don't know if i can do this...
I'm in the wrong channel.
yeah the 180 on frost was pretty wild..
or you dont win by enough.
im no hype on campbell.
we are not.
Mike Riley thought we were nice people.
Ill take frost over campbell all day.
The nebraska gig is so ridulously tough you gotta have someone who knows how to handle the spotlight..
Tackling been a little better this year.
Missed tackles in big moments....
If frost had half a brain he'd be starting Oliver Martin and Betts Friday.
So I look forward to seeing Faulk and Warner instead.
Has Warner dropped more touchdowns than Nebraska has thrown this year?.
Oh that's right.
What a meat head.
What is he talking about.
What did peter do?.
Did he call plays at Oregon or did jelly do that?.
Not when they happen.
He just addresses mistakes in the film room.
For placing tempo of reps over detail.
For the tough guy coach talk.
For everything.
It's frost.
The problem is not cam.
Has to be ingame situations.
Let him snap it out.
You want the athletes on the field.
Cam is that good physically.
No hype on this year not the future.
I said we were young.
Not max hype.
He's going to be an all american before his career is over.
He just needs more.
Snapping comes with reps.
Cam Jurgens is fine.
That's the no hype.
He'd start on osu.
Absolutely he would.
Robinson?!.
Mosaic newsone next year will be a stud.
Casey Rogers not quite there yet but he's coming.
He's start on any team in the conf..
Difference maker.
He's a gamer.
Rogers made like three plays right after the hands to the face.
He's a star flat out.
These are real blackshirts we're talking about.
They just want to crack heads.
They play in any system.
Not for Robinson and Rogers.
They came for a chance to be apart of greatness.
They didn't come for chins.
If we didn't lose to every division team we played we'd win the division.
That'll fix it.
Stille Rogers dd ty Robinson p Payne.
We need to go 5-2.
This year yes.
Ty Robinson is suh Casey Rogers is Crick.
They are just young this year.
They wait to see what the rest of the crowd is doing before they cheer.
Self loathing and yet arrogant.
They are a shameful people.
It's a moving target for sure.
No hype is Wiley coyote after he runs off the ledge but before he realizes it.
I'll have to see what my emotions tell me on Friday.
I'm thinking it might be max hype.
Solid and somehype is an oxymoron.
Without losing to wisc and making a bowl.
It'll take some reflection on my part.
3 wins is definitely no hype.
 But when is the last time we beat penn state Iowa Minnesota in a season?.
I think we beat penn state, Iowa, Minnesota this year lose everything else.
On the whole.
So this is no hype.
That we win.
But I am always wrong.
I've never been more confident..
They can't lose this.
We need Luke to be more than what he was last week.
We need the d to feel embarrassed and angry.
This game always comes down to want to.
These guys we got don't seem like they want it bad enough.
This thing could be over quick.
The o is definitely not scoring a lot.
So the d will need to win.
And frost doesn't watch the defense play so that means it comes down to chinander who is himself an admitted iowegians so we are fucked..
You can never let down if you play for Nebraska.
Every team is coming for your scalp.
The clout chasing Indiana's Purdue's and Minnesota's of the world live for a win over a brand like Nebraska.
The more I hear about the lead up to Illinois the more I think there was some heavy partying after the penn state game..
Me stuck in that dumpster after holding onto max hype a week too long.
It's bullshit.
At the very least I thought frosts teams would be fun to watch.
It's not fun watching use stall for a quarter and a half while our defense gets ripped to shreds.
It's excruciating.
How long should it take to have some plays that work.
Get someone who knows how to put out a function football team.
If we get embarrassed by Iowa he needs to go.
He gets one more game from me before I'm going all in on firefrost.
Frost was drawing up a play at the time.
Guess who wasn't there? One of the guys who play up to stop a fake.
Frost said he found out after the game.
If we get crushed by Iowa this is the end.
He's barely treading water.
I'm going to watch cause for me this is the last chance to salvage the season.
But it's setting up for us to get shoved around all game.
How is our offense so bad?.
This is definitely a game to turn off if it goes south.
That's a start.
How many times does frost get to stand on the podium an say we are going to get this fixed, while taking no steps towards fixing things before we start the revolution.
Is this team worse than tanner lee Riley team?.
What do y'all know about smothers.
Can he throw the ball over five yards down field?.
This is how I no hype..
Then wait for it...
we lose to vedral led rutgers.
Then we will get crushed by Purdue and beat a bad minnesota team.
The defense will come in with something to prove.
It's a rivalry game and emotion matters.
Mills will come back and a real run game will help mccaffery or 2 am..
We are going to beat Iowa.
I never thought we'd get to a place where Scott frost is a losing season away from getting fired.
Come on hyped.
Get disappointed early but excuse it away.
Small ray of hope.
Complete collapse into despair.
Regain some sliver of hope.
Max hype next season.
Rinse and repeat.
This is the natural course of things..
Players not focused always making mistakes missing assignments.
Went off post game.
He was yelling on the sidelines.
Fire chinander.
I can't think of a single play we run that works more than once.
Austin Allen was the only target worth a shit.
Get brown a couple hand offs.
Flemming gets no targets anymore.
He should be.
Wandale has like two big plays on the year.
Mills hasn't done shit.
Scott frost was supposed to be so great at creating mismatches why can't he get our best players the ball ?.
Run Luke as a wing back.
Start Adrian.
This is our last chance at a win.
It's fucking garbage.
I'll say it again frost should not be calling plays when we can't get the right amount of guys on the field..
Run some seven yard outs.
Maybe don't always over load the side you want to throw too.
They know what we are doing way too often.
Maybe if Scott goes seven yards a cut on a drive try that again next time you have the ball..
Worst loss I've seen in awhile..
Stuff the run, get pressure on third.
Only way you get off the field consistently.
We need that guy at olber.
They at least flash the potential.
If you want to get off the field on third down you need cornerbacks and a pass rusher.
Luke reimer will be a star.
Ty Robinson will be a star.
We need upgrades at cb and olber.
Yeah nothing.
We don't have a cb who is all the sudden jump a route.
I mean in game when things are sketchy go out and make a big play star.
Domann maybe?.
We don't have enough stars.
He needs more time.
Gunnerson i like.
We need stars..
But he sucks sometimes.
I think Heinrich moves inside.
Nelson I still like.
Who replaces domann?.
But could be decent.
I think snow grass is not bad..
Heinrich doesn't look game changing.
Reimer could be a star.
We lose domann miller and honas next year.
Where is the pass rush coming from.
D line is better.
Yea frost needs to win.
That's a possible lineup next year.
Nadab farmer npg ctb.
They aren't ready yet.
I like those two.
He played today.
Bootle has a great career but he's the classic 3 star over performing.
Him dickerson.
Those are the athletes we need.
Apparently his recruitment was non traditional.
No he just qualified.
We needed Dickerson.
YANT YANT YANT YANT YANT YANT YANT.
did he abandon us right before the michigan game?.
Where the fuck is Nota?.
MAX HYPE YANT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
WHEN THE TRAIN IS COMING THROUGH!.
GET OFF THE TRACKS!.
HES COMING!.
HES COMING!.
2AM IS THE BEST QB IN THE TEN!.
BEST FRONT SEVEN IN THE TEN AND IT  IS NOT CLOSE!.
GNELLY IS HAVOC IN CLEATS!.
HENRICH IS BARRET RUUD!.
D WILLIAMS IS THE BEST TACKLING SAFETY IN THE NATION!.
LUKE REIMER IS LAVANTE DAVID!.
JOJO IS AN ALL AMERICAN TALENT!.
31-13 Huskers.
FIRE UP THIS DUCKING DREAM MACHINE.
ITS FRIDAY!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
Or did he bounce bounce.
Is Nota still iowa'd?.
SATURDAY AGAINST MICHIGAN!.
WHEN DO WE WANT IT!.
WHAT DO WE WANT!.
im one long yant touchdown run away from combusting.
big game folks.
big ducking game..
im feeling this hype.
BIG.
FUCK SHARED TITLES.
FUCK DESMOND HOWARD.
FUCK BLUE AND GOLD.
WE ARE GOING TO FUCK THESE YUPPIE PIECES OF SHIT UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
this will have to do i guess.
Need some yant gifs.
way fucking better than iowas.
Nebraska defense is like its corn.
Michigan is getting ran the fuck over! Along with every sad sack who gets in yants way!.
we need a chinander version of this with tuioti and fisher in the back up dancer spot.
I think we win like 31-13.
maybe 18 - 19.
I think we slide into the top 20.
What are we ranked after saturday?.
MIchigan week.
not 7.
not 5.
Not 3.
Not 1.
No hype clowns getting shut down.
Husker victories in the regular season 9.
Members of the Wutang 9.
woooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.
max hype teddy.
It's time we take our rightful place on top of the hype hierarchy.
The hypearchy..
We always have been.
We out here.
Run the same look with yant as the pitchman and have him lead block for 2am on the edge..
Run the counter option with fidone as the pitch man.
Jesus forgot about fidone!.
Memorial will be bumping..
Well run the ball and convert in the red zone.
We may turn it over.
The d will keep them in front of us.
I see us working that soft zone till we can catch them for a loss or no gainer.
Then come at them..
Low end 28-23.
High margin probably 35-17.
I'm thinking Nebraska scores low to mid thirties.
Michigan gets around 20.
This is a moment for our guys.
I promise you these dudes are foaming at the mouth to get a chance to put the world on notice that Nebraska is fucking legit..
Michigan had this shit penciled I'm as a w..
The taste of what it feels like to do things right and absolutely dominate..
Now we got the taste.
We got the mo.
We got the big game experience at Oklahoma on the road.
Michigan state on the road.
Both shoulda won..
I think teddy and nouli might be good.
Frost and Austin fixing the line in season.
We are better with Martin.
That was the first game we had toure Martin Omar Betts vok and Allen out there.
That's a good fucking line up.
2am is still final four 2am.
The defense is full of ballers.
We have a better d than Iowa.
We are going to smoke Michigan..
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
It was a good game for sure.
Where is nota?.
If you're in youre in.
There will be no tolerance of any faking the funk.
Greetings i always knew we were good max hypers.
youve failed us.
Youve failed yant.
Yant stop won't stop.
The hype train keeps rolling.
Wilding out of control.
Sticking to the man.
But here we are.
They got comfortable in their misery.
They didn't want to hear it.
We told their ass he was coming.
Northwestern?.
You gotta win 1 to win out so let's get this fucking dub!!!!.
Fidone on the option when he's back?.
Still think we need to get brown and Nixon on it.
Adrian can time it really well.
The counter option is sick.
When we need to get to the ball carrier we do..
I think we take lisconsin.
I can see that.
They out there.
They want to bring it down.
But its too late.
The hype is too real.
We are winning out..
not on my watch.
theyll just try to sneak on the train and pretend they've been here from the start.
They wont admit.
the sad sacks at the end of the season.
the sad sacks when we win our bowl.
the sad sacks when we beat Iowa.
the sad sacks when we beat wisconsin.
the sad sacks when we beat osu.
the sad sacks when we beat minnesota.
the sad sacks when we beat purdue.
the sad sacks when we beat michigan.
the sad sacks when we beat nwestern.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!.
There we go!.
Those SOBs are always up in our business.
Think we get a big turnover that leads to an easy score as well.
Maybe multiple..
we need to score like two or three times and put this game out of reach right at the start.
Could be a smothers game..
We got to work this northwestern game execution wise.
The line has to get some Rythmn we take that into Michigan and let the d take over.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We got kpai ho ouli Gybor coming up behind them.
This might be one of the best lbing cores we've had in a long time....
Garret Nelson Caleb tannor a bringing it this year.
Jojo is an nfl guy.
Heinrich is a future all conference guy..
After years of being a huge liability our linebacking core is the str of the defense..
Our linebackers are really good.
Luke Reimer is lavonte David.
They need to give yant and Scott a run next week..
Definitely kept his place as the number one going forward..
He had an okay night at MSU..
This is the week rahmir Johnson goes over one hundred.
Think he rips off a 60 yard td run..
But these dudes are fucking our shit up.
Or banks I'm not sure.
Hixon is not the answer.
Nouli at lg?.
Maybe we see teddy at rlt.
This is the oline game to get it right.
Nw doesn't give you anything cheap but they don't have the players this year.
we knew the d would be good and the d is great.
We knew adrian would do better in his senior season after a strong 2020 finish and he did.
We thought the oline was a questionmark and it is.
We need to play yant.
We need to find a punter.
problems solved..
or theyd see where this thing is headed.
if i see one more, look the defense is really average post im going to lose my shit.
They dont watch the games, they cant..
and themselves.
they dont want to admit theres progress cause they hate frost.
its the only path we have left..
win out to save the season.
25 range sounds about right.
Michigan will be tough but we got them at home.
The wins are coming starting next week..
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
You're either in or out.
Either way close the fucking door cause you are letting the hype out..
We are winning out.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!!!!!!!!!.
We are winning out.
We are winning out.
Max hype team.
Special teams.
The RBs.
The tight ends.
The wr Corp.
The secondary.
The Dline?.
Lisconsin!.
MSU!.
That'll free up some time for special teams.
the talent is there except in a couple unfortunately key position groups.
adrian looked good real good.
the d looked good.
admit it.
you came away feeling a better about the team.
you can when the sad sacks are predicting a blowout.
that was a max hype game.
lol the sad sacks acting like they had a bead on that game.
it was a w to me.
when you wake up sunday to do it all over again.
when the husker prove you right.
every like you get.
when you hit them with the hype facts.
when you decide to rewrite it an tone it down a bit before posting to the world.
when youre typing your reply.
when you see sad sacks predicting nebraska Ls on the internet.
A lot of motion on offense that puts the Iowa d into bad matchups.
They give up big plays and settle down in the second half.
Then we slug it out with them.
They work the lead back down to 3-4 but Adrian leads a huge drive and we go back up two scores in the 4th and that ends it..
We are going to throw some fire at them..
Ferentz is the one feeling pressure this game not frost not the huskers.
The huskers have already had a great year at this point..
Iowa has a chance at the playoff..
I don't think that we beat osu.
But we beat Wisconsin and roll into The Iowa game at 8 wins..
Now we come to the big three..
We get a little scare in Minnesota as fleck finds a way to move the ball.
But the offense picks up the slack.
Wins scoring in the mid 30s..
We run the ball all over Purdue and win..
And Iowa is good..
We are ranked..
This is the game that changes the program..
Two more games for the line.
Two more games for the RBs..
Two more ws for Adrian, two more games for Omar two more games for Betts.
A guy like toure came to Nebraska for these types of games..
You won't be taking Michigan going into this I tell you that.
Big time game gets a lot of eyeballs.
Harbaugh v frost....
Played ou to the last possession, asserted dominance over a ranked msu, got the job done at nwestern..
Then we come to Michigan.
We beat them but maybe don't cover cause of high spread and nwestern..
What then? You think the d is letting die against nwestern?.
This is a 28-9 type game..
Is a msu quarterback who has to throw going to rise to the occasion? Or is he going to start turning the ball over.
Changing it to 20-3.
Now they gotta score to even get within range of winning and they haven't scored once..
Because we come out opening drive with a fucking huge explosive play on a wrinkle..
Third quarter is where we flip the switch and become a fucking 9 win team with a bowl game..
Give up a big kick return but the defense holds them to a field goal?.
13-3 at half? Maybe? Two touchdowns and a missed pat.
And now we are in the drivers seat..
We open up a 10 point lead by half..
This week I'm thinking we play the run.
We limit time of possession by attacking the run one the early downs.
Adrian gets a lot of possessions early.
Oklahoma ran on us cause we played the pass.
When we played run we got to the ball..
This will be the best team msu has played.
We would roll Miami.
These ooc schools aren't building their team to stop a big ten running attack..
This defense wants to dominate..
The team is confident..
It's not 20 degrees out..
Martinez is dealing.
Michigan state is not going to put up a score in the 20s.
But they are similarly built.
My thinking is msu is better than people thought but is not the dantonio Michigan state you might not score a touchdown msu..
I'm more and more convinced we are winning big games..
Why are we here if not to get out of hand?.
We got down field quite a bit.
Think we can do the same against Michigan state..
Max hype Omar manning!!!!!!!!!!!!.
Max hype Omar manning!!!!!.
Omarrrrrrrrrrrrr!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
we hype the huskers not frost.
then all aboard.
if he cant.
If frost can drive this train then all aboard.
Where we are headed.
Where we started.
When they still dont rank us next week.
when we get on the field.
When they are ranked top 20.
When I see msu on the schedule.
Could a 3 loss big ten champ make the playoffs.
We are going to get a lot of good football games this year.
For both teams.
With real implications.
But it'll get a lot of attention and it will be on Black Friday..
Probably a coin flip game.
You gotta think Iowa has at least one conf loss by the time we play so who ever wins wins the division..
Now we are six and 2 in conference.
So 5-2 in conference with Wisconsin and Iowa left.
I don't think Wisconsin is that good this year.
I think we can make enough plays against the run to get off the field.
We might even get on one and embarrass them..
So if we are 5-2 after Michigan with one conference loss we are beating Purdue and Minnesota.
7-2 5-1 in conference.
Now we get Ohio state...
probably an L depending where Ohio state is at..
That sounds like a w..
4-2 getting Michigan at home....
4-2 is still a thing.
Final form Adrian .
Surging defense a couple turnovers away from elite.
Nfl talents getting the ball down field.
Allen Omar Betts toure are all nfl prospects imo..
Confident reasonable appropriately risk adverse play calling that values the act of running the damn ball..
It was the Adrian we saw at the end of last season too.
It's not crazy to think we are seeing final form Adrian..
So we have 3 games of really good Adrian and 1 really bad Adrian.
He played the previous 2 games like that too.
Adrian played that game like a 4 year starter.
I feel the mistakes will go down.
If frost can stay with the run game.
I'm not worried if we have some 3rd and sevens cause you got all those weapons and Adrian on the scramble.
That's all you really need and when Martin gets back you got another deep threat..
I think we beat MSU and beat them badly.
Betts can make plays on anyone, Omar can make plays on anyone, toure can make plays on anyone, Allen is going to be a tough match up for anyone..
We might have a win a game type defense and we are only getting better next year..
That's the difference between good and great defenses.
Does the defense start making those turnovers..
Everything else was right on.
We had three shots at a turnover we didn't convert.
Is it insane to think we build off this..
But it was a big ask.
You had that game.
Allen is all over the place.
Those guys who needed time to get comfortable nfl talents Betts and manning show up big.
Adrian Martinez deals..
We go into Norman fucking fired up and the defense fucking deals..
Divisional loss too.
And things are clicking.
We rode those two games where we could just focus on executing and having success.
I agree with that.
You see the lbers really emerge.
Then we get buffalo, a team that looked pretty good coming in.
They ran the ball, they had a good qb and a good dline.
But not a p5 team.
It really becomes a chance to take all the confidence and success and replicate it in a small step up in talent.
Then you get a bounce back game.
You get to run your offense against a team that you are more athletic then.
We lock in and get a rhythm.
We get the back ups reps.
Players feel more confident..
Okay so the way I see it the huskers came into te Illinois game with a lack of confidence, frost was confident in his game plan, the offense wasn't confident in its responsibilities, the whole team had the yips..
Johnson shoulda taken this to the house.
4 touchdowns a game will win most of the games we play.
Regardless of kicking we need to see the offense put up more touchdowns.
Yeah need to take him out..
The pass game was going despite the ou line.
Except for the line.
The offense was smooth.
I can see us going into Iowa at 8-3.
We got a little carried away.
That's where this is leading.
It's ya and Iowa.
If we beat Michigan state and the defense locks it down again.
I'm ready to say we beat nwestern, we beat Michigan and we beat purdont.
I don't know why people think that's an auto l.
We win there, beat nwestern we are 4-2 at home against Michigan.
I'm really looking forward to MSU.
They get to the ball.
Our linebackers are good.
Yeah it's those third and 3s third and fours..
That's not typical Nebraska d.
It took them a few shots.
Even when they get up close they didn't ever let them just walk in.
We still got down field on them.
That d line can play.
They don't panic either.
Oklahoma was running cause we were playing pass most of the game and still stopping big plays.
When we play the run we stuff it.
What does wisc have Oklahoma didn't.
I think we beat wisc.
If they lock in we are holding MSU to sub 14 points.
If we can do that to Oklahoma we can do that to any other offense on the schedule.
We just need a little more pressure.
But this is three weeks and really they played pretty well against Illinois but not as good as they've played since then.
The question is always consistency..
Think they might be saying that pretty soon.
Best defense in the conference?.
He's hungry.
Feed him the rock.
Yant is the best option to beast until he's not.
Everyone else has had a shot.
He's beating at least one guy.
Run brown on some screens.
What happened to Hickman? Brown?.
He's injured.
Fuck pedo u.
Switch yant and Scott every two plays and just run at them.
But Scott or yant off the benche.
Start rahmir he earned it.
I think we need to early.
We might see some yant or Scott next week.
I haven't heard.
Looked like it.
Didn't see any Hickman.
I like teddy lead blocking at te.
I'd rather see the diamond back.
This is three fucking lock down defensive efforts.
Nelson and Payne on the edges.
On third and long.
Give my that 2 dline look with d train and Rogers.
We don't even have Casey Rogers.
Ty ty is the biggest guy on the field most games.
Even Liewer is y'all.
I think we got a roster.
Imagine if fidone stayed healthy.
Clark newsome toure Omar Betts.
We looked big compared to ou.
Betts is a high end talent.
But I'm not going to root for him.
He shoulda stayed..
I don't hate him.
That one hurt.
I don't blame him but I hate him.
Ku.
He's tearing it up at ju.
Fuck wandale.
He can't fix the oline andche doesn't kick.
That's how we lost.
Don't say his name here.
Betts toure manning.
Betts ran right by that dude.
Martinez dimes him.
Better than a lot of the lb cores we've had..
Domann Heinrich reimer gnelly is the best 3-4 lb core we've hand.
We looked fucking decent.
MSU nw Purdue Michigan Minnesota Wisconsin.
Nebraska is winning 8.
I think that's what we're seeing.
Betts might be the best of the bunch.
I could see us really exploding in the pass game with them Allen and Martin.
It's just can we protect.
Ou has some nasty dense.
They are nfl type athletes.
Still waiting on Martin so we are out a pretty good target.
Him and Betts needed time but if they aren't starting next week I'd be shocked.
Get the Db on his back.
Go up and make the catch.
He can do that shit all day.
This fucking guy.
Just a really good game.
Even penalties were even.
They maybe had a slight edge.
The stats are pretty fucking even.
Outside of those two I don't think we made any glaring wtf mistakes.
St and oline are holding us back.
It was close but we aren't quite there.
Regardless.
It's at least a six point swing.
And make you pat.
But you gotta hit from 35.
I don't really count the fg we missed thatbwas omg.
If Adrian plays like he played today we are gonna beat some good teams.
This defense can get us to 4-2.
MSU looking like a must win.
Clark missed a couple tackles but didn't look lost.
I didn't see him back.
Did we hear about ctb?.
We get push up front but we don't have those players who can step around a guy.
We are a pass rusher away from being elite.
That dline was mean.
It's been the pattern tough to start then it opens up later.
The yards started coming late.
Rahmir had a good game..
Any word on Ervin?.
It was the oline and the kicker.
That's my guess.
We are going to see teddy starting soon.
Allen is a nice target.
That's mean..
We line up Omar Betts toure in the slot?.
Biggest thing in my opinion is Omar and Betts we're making plays.
Stayed with the run and it opened up.
Play calling was excellent.
We had three really close interceptions we missed.
The soft zone looks pretty good.
I was wrong on that one.
Our linebackers are everywhere and when we bare down on the run we get stops.
Way better.
The line sucks.
Two field goals but maybe really only one he shoulda had.
Take away two add that point that got blocked.
Special teams was basically the difference in the game.
How fucking fun was that game.
Regardless max hype needs a leader.
Guess it's kinda yellow green.
Close one gentleman.
We gave it our all.
Unfortunately I must step down.
Gif battle to see who gets the light green.
That's our best chance Rush 3.
And drop our guys back in coverage.
I think if we can handle the run and force them to throw.
Mission accomplished.
Restoring the order.
Beating ou.
Making it work.
Trying again.
Dusting back off.
Getting back up.
Riding the wave.
Not giving a fuck.
Living the dream.
Kicking the hype.
They're nervous.
Getting a lot of visits from the sad sacks..
Vok Martin Omar are all playing Saturday.
I'm not sure but if they do hype the duck up for this upset.
300 yards rushing 5 tds.
Big game incoming.
2am is ready.
they look pretty happy in the one i posted here.
Nebraska must have been good then.
at least in the old black and whites.
theres a tradeoff i guess.
honestly they look hot and miserable but also fancy.
looking at the old black and white photos they got did up in the 30s.
Yeah and their parents dressed nicer than they did.
Roll those dice frost.
Go down being frost..
Sometimes you gotta roll the hard six.
We've been cheated.
If frost doesn't try some weird shit in questionable moments.
I took a minute to get to know myself again and it became clear.
If 2am doesn't come out and drop back to throw 50 times we've been cheated..
I realized that's some hype thinking.
The max hype in me is taking over.
It's easier after a win I guess even over buffalo.
Had you asked me at the beginning of the year I'd say run the ball kill some clock throw Adrian like 15 times don't get embarrassed.
35 beats ou?.
And then we come out and shove ou around.
Watch him hide this depth chart.
Adrian Martinez is going for 300 yards on the ground and 5 tds.
Oklahoma will have no tape on it so we know what that means.
I was thinking a few seconds ago that we haven't seen Allen and vok.
There was talk about running a lot of double tight ends.
Sit Allen sit vok.
Let your run game get worked cause you're oline kinda sucks.
But you know once you get vok back you can can unleash a new run attack out of double tights..
Think Scott will drop a depth chart.
Banks is ready.
i want to 100x it.
should i parlay it with an iowa outright?.
i can dig it.
10 gets 100.
stay tuned.
that will fix everything.
They are going to make a change on the line.
I've think we can match up with Oklahoma.
Dline doesn't even have Casey Rogers right?.
The defense is good..
Newsome is playing like a vet.
How good is he in the run game?.
Ctb is better than he's played.
Dwilliams might be better than ctb.
Dawson did a good job with the olbers.
Ruud is good.
Don't front on 4 star big recruiting win Heinrich.
I saw 3 linebackers with all conf potential reimer domann and Heinrich.
We have a lock down defense.
I'm putting money down on the outright if the odds are nice.
FFFROOOSSSTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!.
Frrrrrooooosssstttttttt!!!!!!!!!.
We are coming!!!!!!.
Frost has won big games.
It's our time.
Sometimes you gotta take a fucking stand.
But life isn't perfect.
3-0 frost woulda been perfect.
We can win this.
I think we got a chance.
Got to where we needed to be with no muss..
Some new looks on offense.
I want to see some wrinkles.
We can hold our own.
Make rattler make a throw.
Let our secondary square up with them.
Chance rattler around.
Send pressure.
Give them a fucking game plan that takes some chances.
Let the defense go.
We have playmakers.
D Williams is a star.
Ctb is a star.
Jojo is a star.
Reimer is a star.
The secondary will shine as chinander takes more risks.
Through passion and determination.
We are beating Oklahoma.
We are going to beat Oklahoma.
That's what it is.
We are a feast and famine on offense.
I think the last two gave us some confidence.
We can't play scared.
We need to play with fire..
This is ou Nebraska.
I want to see our guysfired the duck up.
Frost needs to game plan some quick reads.
Get the ball out before ou can get to us.
Run some screens cause I'm going to bet they'll try and come after us..
And protection.
It will come down to turnovers.
Our tes will make catches.
Or secondary will tackle well.
We'll be tough to run on.
Adrian wil make big playscon the ground..
Toure will get open..
But we can win this game.
Cause of their brittleness and flaccidity..
The sad sacks will want to talk about all the reasons we will get blown out by ou.
A defense that can keep the score low and an offense that might take some time to get going but could make some big plays..
This is exactly what I thought we'd see early except for the Illinois hick up.
I was really impressed how the defense controlled that game.
Give them some new looks.
So he has to throw from the pocket..
Keep him contained.
Make rattler make good throws.
Or at least mix it up.
We've got the guys to play a little tighter.
Where we give them 7 yards over and over.
We can't just play that we're scared in a big game classic Nebraska coverage.
I'm worried about their pass rush so it will be interesting to see what frost does..
We're going to beat Oklahoma with big plays.
Get it to toure, get it to Betts get it to the tight ends, let Adrian scramble.
We should get out there and toss the ball.
I think we are going to have to chill on run the ball for another year.
Anything we can do to open up the rb game.
It keeps the defense honest.
It's going to get us some bigvplays.
We've been looking for some Scott frost signature play and that's the best one.
The counter we option that I'm going to I'm sure improperly call the backside option is a great play..
We'll see more Betts going forward.
And more brown..
Toure is good.
He can get open and has good hands..
Last game he was open a lot too.
Hickman is really intriguing.
We've got more playmakers this year than last year on offense..
We got a bit more pressure.
These guys are ready to take some risks.
Chins needs to draw some shit up.
Q newsome is good good.
This is the deepest dline we've had in years.
The linebackers are only going to get better.
They are what they thought they were.
I feel really good about the d.
Late but gbr.
13 point lead at half.
Max hype pregame wish list..
Huskers with 1 win.
Caleb tannor with 2 sacks.
The defense opens with a 3 and out..
4 quarters of clean consistent play..
Stepp going 5 yards on first down.
Yant with 6 carries..
Omar manning with 7 catches.
Toure with 8 catches.
Jojo with 9 tackles.
10 tackle for losses.
11 huskers playing in unison.
12 tackles by future all conference inside line back Luke reimer.
Hskr probably.
think a lot of gin drinks can be subbed with vodka.
i feel more refined when im mashing gin drinks.
a little classier than vodka.
The gin and tonic is legit tho.
that might be vodka tho.
martinis maybe.
that might be the only things i drink it in.
gin and tonic.
i like it in certain drinks.
you dont like gin?.
pretty hipster but pretty cool.
on place sets a piece of time or basil on fire then serves it.
ive had it in several different places.
all ended up in memory loss and shame.
the last word will fuck a person up.
not if that man 3-7 is in there.
i can see that actually.
ah there you go.
like 36-10?.
yant carrying lbs for another 4 yards.
its just a matter of time.
yant is coming.
He got to the second level at least twice last game.
yant when he gets to the second level.
I feel like the big ten is this.
You have to have a defense that gets off the field.
We need guys flying to the ball.
2nd and 8 2nd and 10.
Those are the downs that win..
I think he gives us the same thing.
Yards after contact..
I think he gets another 5 touches.
I'm max hyping yant.
He needs some first half touches.
If we get in the red zone he needs some touches..
I'm max hyping Omar manning to be a force is spots.
Maybe like a 4-5 catch game but he gets his first td and gets a long one.
Dude can block.
He needs to be on the field..
Stepp is a good back and he's just getting comfortable.
I think we are going to start to see some things from him..
I think he can be that guy..
Every game really..
Toure needs to grab a shit ton of catches..
Transfers will save us after recruiting craters..
Stepp and Toure.
Who I'm max hyping for the buffalo game..
If you do it for the right recruits it's a thousands of dollars thing..
Jeff gambino would put down cash on that.
Do it on Cardano.
Hope it hits.
Everybody profits.
Put up an nft for a high value recruit and you get to pick him for a certain team.
So if it's joseph Lewis a fan buys the nft and chooses the jersey he wears..
Someone is going to buy these things up..
Make an nft of every husker play one the roster.
Get the player to help promote it online.
Give them a healthy cut..
My thought is an nil play.
So I've been thinking about how I can turn this thing around for Scotty or at least pitch in to the hype..
Fucking excellent bit of hype.
When you lose to Illinois and the sad sacks start feeling bold.
When I think about the huskers winning 8.
We need another weapon in the red zone.
Manning i think is a lot closer to being a starter.
Leiwer Maybe the starter but manning should be getting at least half the snaps.
You can bing them in, in spots with a couple plays that go to them and see if you can get a long one..
Even if you can't trust them to be consistent enough to take a starters amount of snaps.
Same with brown..
Through this next game.
A guy like Betts can come in off the bench and give us a big play threat..
So they need to focus on getting brown more reps getting Betts more reps getting manning more reps and getting sevion more reps..
But there aren't a ton of big plays with those guys..
As I see it we can win games with stepp taking 15-20 carries a game, and toure Martin and Allen leading the team in catches..
They need to throw him that screen.
Make a Db tackle him.
Bet he gets 5 more than he gets 2.
Manning hasn't had that breaknout game yet but he's gotten the ball im both games..
Never that.
Yant brings something no other back can but stepp is our number 1.
Yant needs touches over everyone but sevion imo..
Early and often.
Our best players on offense are as follows.
2am, stepp toure Allen and Martin.
I want to see them get the ball in a big way against buffalo.
We are beating oklahoma.
Huskers headed into oklahoma.
Huskers after the buffalo game..
Huskers after the furdem game..
where my cats at!?.
dog people taking over.
You on a trip psy?.
They hit 8 weeks on the 5th.
Got a home lined up..
Kittens psyched to see frost turn this thing around.
I was surprised they all came out the same color.
Gonna give them away when they get bigger.
They are a lot of fun tho.
Yeah getting big fast.
Quality post.
when i was younger used to want to go to one.
yall ever seen those white and black raves in europe?.
Youre a jump right in the mosh pit kinda guy?.
but the kid kudi concert i had to play the back cause i dont dig crowds.
When I saw sango i got right up up front.
I like the smaller venues too..
yall get everyone coming through.
Did they start doing live shows in nyc yet?.
Need some 5th ward boys in that mix.
actually real solid playlist.
diamonds in the wood is fire.
theres a song where the hook is riding a wave i cant remember the title.
i like mr rager.
parents let them watch a ton of stuff i might not.
yes and they love horror movies.
none of them can tell me anything about it other than the name and its scary.
the kids at school will not shut up about this movie.
nonsense.
Did anyone listen to the mountain goats in college?.
Or just overall wackness of vanilla ice.
Cause of the German nazi line?.
Give me a penguin riddler remake.
is this why your boss doesnt care if you call in?.
Better than off the computer.
I do like music on a drive.
You an audio snob?.
my brother was a big buffy fan.
i think they line up.
It was a smash.
dont think i ever got into dawsons creek.
why was it controversial?.
I thought so.
my wife has a set list and drum stick from a black keys concert.
is ketchup the most american food item?.
i hate asking for things at restaurants.
@Jey small things.
thats bronson?.
What are y'all s thoughts on the Clint Eastwood spaghetti westerns.
Definitely the best of the genre.
It's not bad.
I've seen waterworks multiple times.
he had a good one with a virologist from columbia.
worth a listen if people get a chance.
anybody watch lex friedmans podcast?.
golf! yay....
Frost is fucking lost.
Give up the clipboard you sob.
Dawson's creek was dope..
That riding a wave song blew the house down live.
I heard he gave him his cd when he was working at some clothes store and Kanye put him on.
Y'all listen to sango?.
I went to a cudi concert a few years back.
It was fire..
Kanye discovered him correct?.
Colab is what it was billed as.
You count that as a Kanye tho?.
That kudi Kanye is fire.
It's been a minute since I've heard it.
Past 25 maybe.
We wasn't sposed to make it to 25 jokes on you we still alive.
Drug dealing just get byyy stack your money till it gets sky higghhh.
College drop out was his peak.
Is jk a billionaire?.
Anyone see the bourdain movie?.
He has sleeping in beds with young kids.
I think he was but he was never tried or convicted.
Still thriller is a legit masterpiece.
Yeah and mike was a pedophile but you can't knock thriller.
I watch hp marathons quite a bit.
It probably gets good ratings.
Harry Potter?.
what did he say?\.
i used to have a kung fu compilation cd with street fight and some other sonny chiba movie in it.
ah shit.
i didn't know that.
season three is in maricopa!.
thats the one.
Anybody remember that Steven segal show where he was riding around with the cops?.
Are you at Garth?.
They'll be others I guess.
Ugh missed the chonks ping fest.
yes rabbits, lots.
pretty sure he catches rabbies and they shoot him or something.
he was a great dog while he was.
Did you fall asleep before the end?.
yeah elijah killed it.
he handled himself pretty well.
going to the milk.
there you go.
jesus i can hardly watch.
why are they doing this to themselves>.
the host is going to put a hole in his stomach.
i dont think id fair well in this game.
uh oh its getting up there.
bake it in a cake pan? is that what makes it detroit style?.
ive never had one so maybe.
detroit style pizza gross.
the short bottle?.
last one id assume?.
do they switch the hot sauces around?.
stay in the moment.
dont know if you dig outkast but he was in their extended click.
cool breeze from the dungeon family.
im gonna watch tanks for a bit but ill drop one real quick..
pretty chill.
that old infinity shot.
get you one.
welcome back chonks.
thats a better question.
why did you shower beer at night.
cops are two faced like two laces on my reeboks, my knees knocked, as i stand back for a clear shot, well did you shoot him, naw kid i didnt have the balls thats when i figured out im bumping too much biggie smalls.
then his old lady tried to play me wave her hands up in my face, i told her check your man cause bitch you acting outa place.
then it hit me thats tyreke from off the street around my grams i havent seen him since 15 when he got booked for doing scams.
shook my hips to the bassline this joker grabbed my waistline.
i got kidnapped they took me to dc had me working underground building missles for ww3.
soupin me up saying your a good worker, how would you like a quarter raise move up to the register..
good drinking music here.
nice nishi.
good shit.
alright nishi youre up.
im in danger.
fuck just realized my wife is gone and i need some power to my phone for the alarm.
now im wzx fang.
for the vibes.
try to sync us up some.
i only pause cause every video deserves comment.
werkin on her night moves!.
cant beat that with a bat.
i know night moves.
im way behind.
pause! pause!.
ill get to it but its gonna be a sec.
just made it to the beatles.
i got more green than grass in the yard.
you been to with girl six month paul wall the reason she wont have sex wit ya.
get it pete!.
get in here nishi.
but i love you thats sweet id rather be sliding on glass feat with leather up under my ass cheek.
charge it to the game keep the change most marriages blossem and die.
patience young ones.
yall going to fast.
gotta piss.
i needa pause.
this is a run it back banger.
18 year old rap is always wild.
they did this outa highschool and promptly split up.
thats not easy to find actually.
isms would like this shit.
all these years i thought he was a wife beater.
not a huge deal.
but the music is.
thats not great.
he did play for someone committing genocide.
weird nothing.
i could be wrong.
one of those things not like the other.
like ill listen to chris brown or mike jack.
like tied to a chair kinda shit.
but he had some kind of crazy relationship with a starlet.
i personally dont let that detract from the muzak.
am i remembering this right?.
he was in on some bad domestic violence?.
give each moment its moment.
seal is killing this.
pause!.
god no wonder you dont hype.
you know whats better than a shower beer.
a roll out of bed into the shower moment.
shower in the morning like a normal.
fuck the shower beer.
theres a operatic song that has my heart.
and hendrix and joplin and beathoven.
and prince and mike and pac.
how do you even make music when your still competing with the who.
these fucking zoomers and their internet accesss.
the who....
im on seal.
alright go.
you put up with the shower mist landing in the beer if your about to vomit.
im telling you your doing it wrong.
its not meant to be an end of the night thing.
unless your hungover in the morning and need the hair of the dog.
shower beers suck.
drink it out the shower.
he does a briar rabbit song thats fire.
might be a little old timey..
hope the dude doesnt offend..
ther eyou go.
chonks you got one?.
makes youforgetthe stench of urine.
its pretty good.
bout new orleans gots lots of jazz.
did yall watch treme on netflix?.
skeleton has some preboomer vibes.
okay im going to hip you to your rappers favorite rapper.
chonks you got one? or can i come with the dude.
fuck you your too young for that.
i might hit that for my next.
do yall listen to devin the dude?.
go for it skeleton.
i got the lighter up.
nostalgia hitting hard.
god damn this is 5th grade.
alright un pause.
theres so much rap.
no ghetto boys?.
no fugees?.
no talib kweli?.
no gangstarr?.
no wutang?.
kid cudi is fire.
good song tho.
idk if id want to be the next drew barry moore.
she had a vicious childhood.
still on drew barry moore.
you can go next.
give me a minute.
they have a great wedding song too.
tell me someone remember all 4 1.
saguaro reference.
quick pause.
im on bryce vine now.
yall remember this? probably not skeleton.
maybe marty.
this goes way back..
and the dude burnt a copy of a cd and sold it to me for 2 bucks.
i said what is this.
i walked in and they were playing this fire music.
when i first moved to st louis i was down town down town and by my building there was a record place.
yall ever hear tower of power.
theres not much inbetween.
r&b soul is an area that people are really into or really oblivious to.
caught the vibe perfect.
honestly didnt expect this.
chonks excelente.
its going to be a minute.
i just like to stay within 1.
fuck.
this is in a thousand rap songs.
love this beat!!!.
okay im on kool.
whod have thought.
damn were headed somewhere.
i know the name more than the music.
not sure.
nooo.
pause songs.
kool and the gang!!!.
are we about to go randb?.
excellent skeleton.
good fucking pick.
chonks get in here.
alright onto george.
only darkness every day/ aint no sunshine when shes gone, and this house just aint no home, anytime she goes away.
hmm i dont know that one.
how cool can one man be.
watch that drummer.
get hip to it if you arent.
mothers hands.
bill withers is fire.
aint no sunshine is so fire.
gotta hit some bruce at some point.
shit now i got multiples i want to play.
not enough harmonica in millenial music.
except for all the cds i used to own.
good call skeleton.
they know what ever google leads them to.
cause hes youth.
im still working through the dylan.
watch this drummer.
oh wait same song.
on the road??.
anyone jack kerouac fans?.
okay im on bob dylan.
shit man down.
im not ready.
damnit skeleton.
which is working well.
i got a work board with shit to do at home and at school and a point system.
im off to a really good start.
started teachers back last week students tomorrow.
ugh down to one beer.
dont hate on talent.
weed musak for sure.
damnit you gotta pause.
this is some weed musak.
the skin flute sounds are...
no a metal flute id assume.
they have a flute.
well give it a listen.
ah the generation gap.
you dont like jethro skeleton?.
could you be loved is the best marley song.
good call chonks.
are we going to get some flute?.
jethro tull???.
gotta hit chonks then marley.
v.
feel bad for you covid kids.
yeah that sucks man.
you hit that live music scene there?.
thats okay.
is he from kearney>.
never heard of mat one t kearney.
my parents always played jt and bob marley on road trips.
lets get to know each other through muzak.
a little underwhelming.
your posting vids.
skel gets it.
alright everyone pause while i catch up.
fire vid on that.
i can dig it.
some sax????.
chonks were waiting on you.
good song skeleton.
still two mins.
leaning towards sweet baby james.
deciding which taylor.
still got a full 230 left tho.
im about to bust some james taylor step back.
and its not 12 minutes by pink floyd.
here we go.
lol nvm thats the commecial.
alright no one post anymore songs till i catch up.
yall seen green street hooligans?.
its next up but no.
havent got there yet.
through hell for what its worth.
there you go skeleton.
word to the father and mother earth, seek an everlasting life through what its worth.
someone else post their music.
this is ajam.
the truth.
the truth will set you free.
how long will we stay under the heel of goose stepping charlitains.
gee and his cycling.
bart flexing his vegas trip.
and their devisive rhetoric.
i blame the red names.
arguing over hype when we should be kicking jams.
why do we always end up like this.
flip it plus `.
its the best picture ive ever taken.
i told deere if i could get you the full shot you could appreciate how small that bowl is.
you know not what you speak.
stop child.
every win.
i want it all.
and i wont settle.
where there is a fucking right and a fucking wrong.
i walk that middle path except on here.
to kids who have behaviors.
it might surprise you to know that might stregnth as a teacher is i am super even keel.
im just playing characters.
if your willing to.
its pretty easy to evaluate your path tho.
im happier tho.
not that im super successful.
its a horrible way to live.
I spent a lot of time not doing shit that was slightly distressing.
for the climate change sheep.
that keeps people on the board.
mostly its probably poor coping skills with stress.
not everyone is ready to jump tho.
once you jump its great.
its like jumping off the high dive.
getting on top of your shit and achieving goals is better than just not caring about shit outa principle.
kinda like herion feels good.
but adults can serperate that from being good.
it feels good.
you cant see me but im shaking my head.
i was wildin the fuck out in st louis.
through my st louis years for sure.
maybe a couple years longer.
I was just full on nihilist from about 19-24.
if you didnt know now you do.
no more excuses marty.
shit worked out fine.
but its not really a regret.
Plus i wasn't confident like i shoulda been.
ince?.
and word was you couldnt get clearence.
that i was thinking of going.
it was right outa college.
thats awesome tho.
I think it came down to questioning the legality of it cause i got a dui in college.
shoulda taught in korea.
I was closest to doing that..
i used to voyeur those forums but didnt take the plunge.
NIGHT CREW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 4 EVA!.
@NotaSadSack_Hype re get in here with a jam!.
are you a solo travel guy?.
im offically clicking on my first link.
at least they dont play nebraska..
i prefer the bluffs.
spent the previous six in cb.
im ashamed to say i lived in ioha for 6 mo.
yeah its a flat out banger.
my neighbors were there.
i lived 5 minutes away from the mall where the von maur got shot up.
coming with that nebraska edge.
above song is flames im running it back.
latina if you are from other central and south american countries.
hispanic if you are from mexico.
hispanic i believe is the politcally correct term.
half.
or at least to a neutural position.
this shit could turn the saddest sacks frown upside down.
im curious.
lets hear what marty hears.
post some youtube vids.
just to give folk options.
doing something.
hes out there.
marty we could duet shook ones.
i could only dream.
not that room rental is shit.
is it country bar karioke or korean room rental shit?.
interesting.
whats the best karioke spot in L town.
i might not be spelling it right.
yeah, karioke.
If i came down to the holy land would you karioke with me?.
marty do you karioke?.
and the following music.
the above music.
some jams incoming via mrs husk.
i used to be strictly rap till i met my wife.
call in deere no room for half way crooks.
Chill with the feedback black we dont need that, its 10 oclock ho where the fuck your seed at, feelin mad hostile ran apostle flowing like christ when he speaks the gospel.
when deere disses yant.
this is how you sunday.
a jam for the sad sacks going through the sunday sads.
night crew!.
spoiler but there is a great scene where the passengers convince themselves they are on a realty prank show and start jettisoning themselves out the airlock.
i like it but dont hear many people talking about it.
hbo show where they are on a space cruise and the ship breaks down then society starts to break down.
or did it get canceled....
is avenue 5 ever putting out a new season?.
Love how this channel has devolved into half half assed counting half arguing complaining and slow poking.
Nice nice nice nice nice nice nice.
I'm just eyeballing it.
It may come as a surprise but I'm not a details kinda guy.
What's this shit?.
At pay.
Don't sully this moment.
Only then can you move on with your life.
Make amends.
Let him know you were sad sacking.
You need to apologize to him on twitter..
Y'all going extinct.
Duck the sad sacks!!!.
We are winning out Deere.
This is insane.
He'll get better.
Is it wild to think the changes fixed some things?.
Line looks good.
Levi Faulk quietly playing the best ball of his life..
Woulda been a good time to practice field goals.
What's the streaming site? 6 something.
Because the sad sacks doubted.
Apologize to yant you sad sacks he's better than I could have even imagined.
We good.
He's bout his business today.
where you guys at?.
And he never fucking will.
Damn no home for the Hulu live stream.
Right where we want them.
Where y'all at in the game?.
Oh wait I'm in raging.
Luke is operating the offense.
Calm yourselves.
Scott is running over people.
they know husk.
tell them i am busy and i wont be coming in.
w.
see, when god closes a door he opens a windo.
i didnt make it out by noon either.
but i still think out by 1 is on the table.
yeah great news.
may luck be on our side.
thats what im shooting for.
apologize to yant marty.
thats makes sense.
keeping the deep fry at bay so i guess its okay for now.
i dont know its like a combo markov / image finder.
ten minutes till pizza.
aint going to create itself thats for damn sure.
someone has too.
I want my kittens back.
they should be bringing pizza soon.
4 more hours and im free.
what are these.
/inspire,e.
@NotaSadSack_Hype.
nvm.
how cold is it there.
careful I might fuck around and make a pilgrimage back to the holy land.
2 more days till fall break!.
Yeah I was all bring back deep fry rednames.
Then they brought it back now I'm not sure..
It is a simulation.
thats a good one.
the r/relationship ones were pretty good too even tho i think a lot of those were fake.
You could tell the good ones cause they'd pop up in /r/pizza or something.
then it got all fake or repetitive..
I used to follow subreddit drama.
are you blue or grey?.
calm down man.
therell be other games.
with kliff kingsbury somehow.
cards might be good this year.
he was.
mortgage the future to make the past kick ass.
I hear its best practice.
huge crossover in membership.
If your calling something toxic for that, then you might as well call the whole internet toxic.
yeah people who like pcms are probably all assholes.
As proved in the tweet from mustache Adam.
That's a boomer move for sure.
Millennials could never commit like that.
what kinda broke dicks get upset about getting called a yuppie?.
Portland usually a little warmer.
I drive through there once and it looked dope..
Deere you could go to mobile.
Hit the beach.
I don't want to go if there's a chance I see snow.
Wife and I are considering visiting Portland in a couple weeks.
Is it cold up in Seattle yet?.
Louis.
Or really just moved bedtime back.
When I stopped adhering to a bedtime my Sunday anxiety didn't ruin my day so much.
Ugh I'm not thinking about it.
Night gang?.
Rat and spy drone?.
That's kinda funny.
But Deere is a hater....
is it friday yet.
Gotta adventure into the link.
Suh kicking facts.
@UM More Like Useless Mostly.
I'm pretty much Twitter and here.
I think I can speak for everyone here.
We don't have tik tok.
6:20 blaze it.
Why would you bring cookies without milk?.
Agreed cyclist memes are where it's at.
That where the anti vax shit started.
Globalization and technology killed the middle class.
but maybe expensive yuppie insurance.
doubt mine does.
I read it...
need is a strong word.
then theyll understand.
just gotta force it through.
Cheetos has a marijuana line? Is that real?\.
I dont think he thought he was still there tho.
he seemed pretty convinced he found his starting spot and that he drove in with his parents and they drove back out.
Fingers crossed.
Lots of young white women get killed not all of them go on tv.
are they going to want to protect a murderer?.
more than they have right now.
you have your health.
must be with relatives..
how much money could he have?.
thats what her friend said at least.
he just freaked out.
he was abusive and controlling.
probably not too far from florida.
they think hes in puerto rico now?.
in puerto rico puerto rico maybe not.
at an all inclusive yet.
didnt think of it like that.
what about the dog.
they are coming after someone.
you aid and abed a fugitive cover up a crime and now they cant charge the son cause he ded.
who else they going after?.
in which case the parents are extra fucked.
Im leaning on the he killed himself theory.
theyre gonna find him soon and the big question is how much time the parents get..
3 went in and two came out.
i was only half listening.
or somehting i dont know.
through eye witnesses or registry.
the dog is on this shit.
dog verified that his parents dropped him off at a different state park.
came back another time..
how insane would it be if the dog tracks him down.
you talking the dog?.
sounds like me.
it was probably human.
She bought that shit online.
Who Is Ana?.
The fuck is that one about.
I don't think they are.
The Who the band is mad overrated.
The Who has to be political with China and withheld things early at least.
They withhold things to manage public behavior.
Not nefarious necessarily.
I think it's clear The Who and the cdc have agendas not necessarily sharing completely truthful information.
I could be mistaken.
That's just what I heard on the radio.
The Who has really been on top of it.
If you mix the two dose shot you got stronger immunity.
Is where I heard it.
Behind getting covid then getting the vaccine.
They say mixing shots is the best protection.
theres a lot of drugs that get used off purpose when they find out it can fix other things..
ive heard antibiotics work in people and animals but have never had the guts to try it..
lol i never figured that one out.
she killing enough people at home.
just wait till the left gets someone killed.
in will full dishonesty there is.
now they think its fine cause the right started it.
I think the left used to try to be principled but they dumped that after trump won.
its entertainment.
they are outright lying to people.
so they believe a lot of things.
they also believe the government is full of people who eat children.
ive never heard a group more excited for military rule.
or q is talking about people fighting for them.
feel like theyre being lied to or targeted so they feel like q is fighting for them.
yeah general distrust of government and media.
Not sure why it became popular.
Probably had the right people sharing it..
The Q thing doesnt say anything.
It just says vague stuff then they go back and make it fit..
I mean they only liked trump cause he was telling them what they wanted to hear.
As soon as you say something they dont already believe in they are gone..
I dont think they would have listened to him either.
These anti vaxx people have been around for awhile.
They just want anything else but what the dems want.
Its weird cause trumps whole covid play was get the vaccine out fast and keep the economy rolling.
yeah people are taking the vet stuff im sure.
I guess there is a human one too.
Thats what rogan was taking..
but basil is great.
onions cooking.
done in like 10 minutes.
grill a pork chop, with a fried egg tortillas and some franks red hot.
a good porkchop is mad underrated.
If any of you get to phoenix, check out crujente.
was gonna take a picture but I didn't want to look like a goober.
Had some bomb ass tacos last night.
celery is good in soups, it absorbs flavor well.
i do celery carrot, ginger and apple and it tastes pretty good.
Celery is a good base to use for juicing.
usually like the wing part of the meal more tho.
I like them both.
Celery is great if youre juicing or eating wings.
G with the excuses: Nishi with the answers.
not an option.
what did you order?.
you really see where someones heart is at.
i just avoid it now mostly.
unless im in recovery..
I had the subscription for a bit.
wasnt really worth it with that either.
Think they just found out they werent going to make money.
my understanding is door dash is the leader.
They werent so bad at the start but its gotten to where they almost double your meal cost.
what is there to think about?.
I do remember crawling down in a hole my dad had dug and not being able to get out and yelling but they couldnt hear me, probably only for like minute, but to a child it feels longer.
Still dont like tight spaces or crowds..
but i moved when i was four so not a lot of memories.
when I lived in swedeburg caseys was the closest shopping.
never had caseys pizza.
tbh.
looks like vals?.
Where's that from?.
VALENTINOS IS SOGGY GARBAGE!.
valentinos is soggy garbage.
Id say I enjoy spicy food.
Rarely is something too hot for me.
Thai I think 3-4 is enough.
Y'all eating at some whitewashed Thai spots if you're getting 9-10.
I like all those ingredients..
but on a pizza? not so sure.
interesting combo.
Never did short ribs but like them in restaurants.
Do you cook them in a slow cooker?.
Chicken taco meat.
Chimichanga.
is that a vegan burger?.
I need to pick up a Dutch oven.
No tooth picks?.
working closely with people is mad overrated.
What to you imagine office work  is like?.
best coast holding it down.
never tried with banana.
Cucumber is myh thing.
I like infused water.
Oktoberfest is the best.
Damn they got the same recipe from 200 years ago?.
Make a good split p with like 3 ingredients.
I love soup.
I'll half an avocado salt it and eat it in or tortilla.
Avocado is the best.
10 bucks ain't bad.
That havarti looks perfect.
we've known that about deere.
Bacon on pizza is one of the few ways I'll eat bacon.
Cream cheese jalapeno.
Not a big buffalo chicken guy but I accept that other people might like it.
Pepperoni sausage green pepper.
Pizza looks really good.
Those wouldnt be my toppings.
But I'm to each their own now.
So I'm letting it slide without comment..
It's never been more possible than it is right now.
Open a pho restaurant stat.
yeah i think we've talked about onions before.
To each their own is my new motto.
never seen it with fries.
not a pico guy?.
I guess in portland you can discriminate against people from california when your selling a house.
as passive aggressiveness.
when i think cali anything i think avacado.
cant say ive had one or seen one.
Do all cali burritos have fries?.
I used to put fries on my hamburger at mcdonalds when i was a child.
salmon wrap sounds pretty tasty.
including chicken gyro.
they serve them with all type of meet.
guess thats what makes it a dragon not a gyre.
are the fries inside?.
just call it a gyro.
You ruined it.
Don't at @NotaSadSack_Hype.
Should we at him.
Optimal Deere.
Drunk Deere hypest yet at the same time saddest Deere.
Being able to fix shit is cool..
Neither do I.
Like good money for someone who works for a living but isn't a plastic surgeon or Deere tech.
Working man big money.
Not like compared to yuppies.
All the servers I know are just tossing around cash at bars and nice restaurants.
You can make big money in the service industry here..
It's better in the moment to have that sweet tax free money.
Because you're sane.
If it's bud light it's pretty typical.
For shiner is real good.
350 a beer.
You didn't tip.
Chili without beans is just spaghetti sauce.
Miss wataburger and go to braums.
Interesting autocorrect.
Adonai.
Uncooked chicken is raw.
Rare not raw.
3 things to live by.
vacation in the lou?.
i dont have anything else.
max hype the huskers.
eat rare chicken.
im trying to shame them from being afraid of getting sick and dying.
but yeah the illness stuff is a little iffy.
If I was in a good restaurant id try it.
you are fucking up the texture of the chicken without realizing it.
yall wouldnt try rare chicken?.
I'd like to try it.
What's the deal with food born illness and chicken.
Is some chicken good other chicken poison.
Some might say the greatest.
Louis had a great Oktoberfest.
letssss GGGGOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
I saw that too and it's what I immediately think of when I hear about cold water boiling faster.
wait check that tacos tequilla and whiskey.
we had one of those in phoenix.
Looks good.
I like a good gringo taco.
I did a kettle bell routine for awhile.
It was good.
You can work a lot of different muscles..
Next your going to be doing the required reading in class.
You're wasting your youth.
You don't have to exercise till you hit twenty five.
Go have fun..
You training for a marathon.
The fuck is a mars bar.
best thing there.
looks like that would be better sans alcohol.
Ahh now I see it.
is the white stuff shredded cabbage?.
looks good.
haven't watched it yet.
I just heard an npr bit on ted lasso.
suck it up.
not a great chance but ill take my chances with the huskers over the other options.
a upset in norman is the only chance you have.
take notes skeleton.
you could buy a house with those winnings.
i need it the next season.
im not waiting three.
imagine one more.
especially after they have a shot to go to the playoffs in 21 and we play spoiler.
but id take it.
if i could walk, i might bargain to do it in peices.
everything is negotiable as god intended.
you could slam it in iowegian faces on twitter forever.
football or gtfo.
cause a basketball championship wouldnt hit the same.
gotta be careful with this stuff.
good question.
god can wait a little longer for us to finish.
we've waited this long for a championship.
i think you can walk.
i might be convinced to give it a go.
I'm not running unless i have something to run from.
Have you no shame.
You gotta ease back in after a vacation for sure.
I hate bk just as much.
sounds like you can end your day.
then it was pretty forgetable.
their green sauce wasnt bad until i had other green sauce.
i like their spicy bean burrito but everything they serve is luke warm.
Migos tjs Del taco.
tjs is that good.
I like their horsey sauce.
smelling them makes me want to vomit.
disgusting.
had to give up shakes but it wasn't easy.
But a roast beef and a shake used to be my jam when i could eat whatever i wanted.
I like arbys, i hate their fries tho.
other than bk and churches i cant think of one i wouldnt eat.
true for any of them.
yeah badly run ones are bad.
hard to find bad ones.
im not sure, fast food is so good.
then probably...
bk is the worst fast food.
id disagree.
cant say i ever ordered off the a&w menu tho.
they used to team up with amigos.
do they still have a&ws in nebraska?.
sams club has a similar deal.
you dont like a dog?.
more places should serve hotdogs.
chili cheese dog runza.
sonic has good ones actually.
love a chili cheese dog.
Life is short Deere.
No time to waste.
i stand by what i said.
stir it up.
I tried to tell you to break the ice but now you've let this thing build past the point of no return.
Been a minute since I've seen that.
The point is skeleton this is all your fault..
Billy Madison?.
Might have a legit reason for having the lights off..
Might put your name on his list.
He's not gonna say shit.
Tell him, hey sorry man I gotta have some light in here and turn the lights on.
Wrap it in foil.
I see people doing water melon and pine apple.
Asparagus is good grilled.
They are good and easy.
Get some bulb green onion.
I love potato foil packets.
Don't need lighter fluid.
Fire starter.
Charcoal chimneys are for yuppies and slicksters.
Bacon.
dont encourage him.
I would be ecstatic if 2am got his name called.
maybe he gets a look.
I forgot about DW.
He can really tackle in the open field.
Allen maybe?.
im not sure who else we get in.
DD maybe...
Yeah thinking like 6-7th ?.
if hes big enough i guess.
definitely a draft guy.
hes lights out right now..
hes really playing well.
1st team all conference?.
How good is jojo?.
You know who.
I walked out of a cardinals game i thought they were going to lose only to hear the tying home run from outside the stadium.
we Nnow the d is good, we Nnow 2 am is good, we Nnow we have good targets, but now we might also have a star back, and the oline might be okay....
but the how part has me baffled.
i know we are going to win.
honestly tho i dont know what to think about the game.
i think we run it but struggle to protect.
i dont think i could take it.
what if the oline is good again this week?.
then play the polar bear.
I want to see him play tho.
but they gotta have room for reps.
You cant keep the polar bear on the bench next year.
guys like nash buckley marquise.
yeah, if they can start getting in the action and ease in that would be preferable.
I want us to keep the jrs and be better but i also like to see new players.
im ready for the smothers regime.
If we could keep DD and Thomas that would be huge.
if we get riola we could land a really nice class.
seems like they are pushing 23 24.
less the better imo..
wisc must win.
minnesota must win.
purdue must win.
idk i think he needs 6.
we look good.
hes not going to tho.
and i think the record will support it.
frost is back.
but hes got them going now.
the starts of the season are fucking dreadful.
i think by frost 10th year we can return punts again.
the staff is getting it together.
but saban is not letting that slip.
think their bama cause they rank in the top 5 recruiting every year.
bama is bama.
feel like bama has stars on the 2 deep that are on st.
thats all we need to worry about.
run the ball stop the run.
frost is just hoping we catch it.
we just gave up any kind of return.
we did good last week.
you handle that you win the game.
most of the plays are on offense or defense.
is my argument.
special teams isnt a third.
Idk i think we can get down field on them.
incase we blow a kick coverage.
we just got to get up by more than a touchdown.
dont think about it.
didnt jd have one.
i did hear a michigan reporter talking about how they are sometimes over aggressive on blitzes and they had trouble with vedral whos the only mobile qb they played.
im guess they'll be in our backfield a lot.
im probably a little to high on the offense coming off that nwestern game.
i can see that.
they are down down down.
we have to beat wisc this year.
apologize to yant marty.
yeah we dont even know their running backs names, how good could they be.
He was not very impressive.
this is what we do.
We are the exposer.
They havent played anyone.
just got to stack them.
ws a w at this point.
I could see that..
Nebraska will expose their bullshit once and for all.
We'll beat them, theyll beat ohio state and well beat ohio state forcing day into the hot seat.
Michigan = paper tiger.
I can see smother getting some time again at the end of the game..
game will be basically over by half.
They'll come out fired up and early we'll break a big play.
These dudes suck hard.
We are going up and down the field on them..
perfect symmetry.
Michigan is not scoring in the twenties..
nebrasketball .
buford looks a lot bigger than i thought hed be.
watching some chaz clips.
Might be a good option for a lot of players stuck in the portal with no where to go..
I wonder if having some of these guys succeed will make more transfers consider walking on to the team.
True, he did bust at two schools..
Reimer, Yant, Martin...
cant remember who im missing.
Nouli walked on maybe?.
walk on program paying dividends.
I feel good about the d maintaining next year.
Even if we lose a lot of the jrs..
Yeah I think him and black can step in but I dont know how many snaps they are ready to give us.
At nt not moving to the oline like some haters may think he should do.
He's going to be a star.
He got called out as being the best young guy.
Nash is the polar bear who is from south orange Dakota and was the big time wrestler.
He is playing nt.
Our d is fishing lines before they were dolphin safe.
Nothing getting out..
Never said the line was good.
Adrian held up.
Adrian held up at Oklahoma and that was a mean d line.
Memorial is going to be bumping.
They are going to have to throw.
They run 70 percent of their plays.
Or I saw someone tweet that.
Run Adrian run.
I don't want to talk about that other stat.
They run it a lot.
Probably working a lot of play action drop backs.
When we put the in third and long we'll get to them.
I sad sacked the offense last week.
This is Adrian's game.
No fuck that..
Frost better not fuck around with these yant carries.
This is gonna be a grind or be ground game..
This Michigan game came at the perfect time.
I think we show up in a big way..
Maybe the line will put together another game.
We get sacked like potatoes.
desmond howard is the new heel anyways.
He can be there when we bully Michigan.
but not this year.
usually that would have me nervous.
Yeah we are built for this type of game.
Michigan must have a good back.
Apparently they are running 70 percent of the time..
the line looks much improved.
ran the ball better.
weve bottled up big plays pretty well this year.
DD is getting drafted.
guys like nance arent holding up in this league.
they can still use small guys just not on the outside if they expact them to block big ten dbs.
I think TE will be fine.
with hickman fidone and that dude from nau.
maybe vok as well.
dd leaving for the nfl id bet.
itd be great to have him back.
looks a lot like khalil out there.
i think he could sign on a team.
maybe grad transfer to a 4-3?.
thomas is staying you think?.
yant is the truth.
Jrs just depends on who wants to get drafted i think..
hes fine hes just pressing trying to make plays and got burnt a couple times..
i think they are pretty good this year.
probably another wr?.
maybe a qb.
maybe take another safety in the portal,.
he lucked into this one.
we smoked him and he lucked out with that punt.
it works for us pretty good.
theres a ton of talent there.
i think they are just going to try to land a bunch of transfers..
i dont know.
small class cause they will probably have some jrs stay.
Then they had sucked for quite awhile so that probably hurt..
bet they move him there.
he will next year at safety.
havent heard much from him this year.
Is nadab still on the team?.
the tradition continues.
They are just slowkinging everything to test it out i think.
They hit me with a bizarre slow the other day..
I think they liked ervin and stepp and rahmir just kept working..
think he deserves a shot.
Howd you think the new starters on the line look? Was this just nwestern being down or are we better with teddy and nouli.
Is there a 40 minute version out?.
How's nouli look?.
Teddy looked decent.
They ran behind him a number of times.
What happened with the oline yesterday? Did the changes really make the difference or did nwestern just play like shit?.
We are winning out.
We finally put it together.
Wisconsin blows balls this year.
Iowa never be shit.
We don't need that many guys.
Especially if we get some hrs to stay.
I don't hate that.
Recruiting is for the birds.
And birds are drones..
My grandmother used to live in clear water.
They want Hastings at dt?.
Bring back $s!!.
That'll get the blue hairs head boppin.
Or ante up.
Ruff riders anthem.
the tunnel walk song we deserve.
I bet if he got an entire half of three and outs he would score more than one touchdown.
how far would monken take this team with this defense.
we should be 5-0.
full backs pounding linebackers.
holes opening up like moses and the red sea.
imagine us lining up with 3 backs.
The defense panicking cause they have no idea who its going too..
I cant decide.
Theres so many coaches to pick from..
If we cant pull monken.
wait was brady michigan or nd?.
he did well in he big ten.
take their coaches too.
san diego?.
maybe we should poach some of the dakota coaches.
They always put out squads..
He runs hard, he has burst but if there's not space he just goes down.
Wandale could make 4-5 yards out of nothing..
I'd love to see it.
He's been the best of the backs they've tried..
I'm never wrong about these things.
But I'm telling you.
Yant is it for us.
Held will figure it out..
Not sure about Johnny.
And Johnny Rogers.
As did Luke Reimer.
Came as a walk-in.
No on scholly.
Point being this is the weakest rb room we've had.
And we have yant sitting on the bench.
He sucked for us.
How many games before zigbo took the 1?.
That's how fucking dumb held is that he though bell was better than I zigbo.
Better that Greg bell.
Not as good as mills or zigbo or Tre or newby or ameer or Rex or helu etc....
He looks okay.
Everyone but yant.
Yant is our only playmaker at th.
Martinez can make a guy miss no one else on team does that.
I like the slant thrown high to Allen or Omar.
Not as much as running 2am tho..
Those rarely work imo.
Run the qb 4 times at this point.
They cant block the run either.
I think thats our problem.
in that order?.
but its easier if you can make some room up front.
i mean lots of ways i guess.
how do you score in the redzone when you cant run the ball?.
I guess you addressed that right below but what ever.
My thing is sure special teams lost us that last game, but if we could run and finish in the redzone once and awhile it wouldn't matter so much.
When you only score two or three times a game giving up a kick return sinks you.
Everytime we hand it off in the redzone we lose yards.
Youre not going to score like that..
you know your in trouble when.
chaz calling out austin.
WE ARE WINNING OUT!!!.
We need Iowa to pick up an l or we won't be able to catch them.
Chaz in SoCal syncs the radio call to the video if you want to hear Davidson day oh no a thousand times as we fumble our way to disappointment.
Matt Davidson is getting paid 200 k?!.
Don't care! We winning out!.
Its not like were the only team to play lower level opponents..
That about sums it up.
Beckton is good.
for a game I think hes okay.
For a long run thats trouble..
thats what i was thinking.
he drove it that drive till they double false started on him.
might be a 9-3 type game.
maybe he'll show out..
can the line protect him.
he can run it, and his throwing looked better.
if smothers has to play this is the game to do it.
rightly so for this game.
is adrian confirmed hurt?.
i mean he was out there letting it bounce.
toure caught all the punts tho right?.
smothers looked okay.
Theres always a bunch of things you could point to say if we had done that right..
but your up by 7 on the road basically a stop away.
Thats a good position to be in..
The bad punt lost the game.
i like dawson.
lol did he say that?.
fucking frost.
lol i guess that would be a little insulting.
did he say why they cant field a competent st unit?.
interesting.
we sucked hard?.
what do you say.
what did he say?.
He kinda knows recruiting i guess? Maybe its even more obvious how worthless he is now that Frost took a year off from recruiting.
I went with frank because mike schaefer was complaining that too many people were going with frank.
its up for debate.
this might be the worst special teams play ever.
wonder if you go back historically if we are still at the bottom.
that tracks with what we are seeing.
did you just make that?.
that almost killed the spark tbh.
god that was a dark day.
never mention him to me again.
yes yes and yes.
is it a scheme thing?.
fuck wandale.
we never double team someone and blow them off the line.
you gotta have a few guys.
wandale was good but he isnt randy moss.
and mills was hurt half the season.
2020 had no one.
he did not.
they never just execute a double team and blow someone back.
hes the only thing they have going for them.
I believe I said the Line was a question mark, but I thought they would answer that question with some solid play.
They dont know what the fuck they are doing and its really disappointing..
This year hes elevated.
last two seasons, one with covid, the other with a center snapping it all over the place.
No weapons.
He was hurt a few times.
Since he came back from benching hes looked really solid..
previous two years were a little rough.
He looks like a 4 year starter this year.
While getting sacked 7 times and getting chased constantly.
2am got the jamaal lord treatment.
oh yeah probably.
who does stroud play for?.
Not the line.
cause i feel pretty strong about the 2 am part.
on which part.
2 am is the best qb in the league behind the worst oline in the league.
no 2 am.
They got a good qb.
then they suck.
feel like people think maryland is good a lot.
is maryland good?.
of course not.
did they catch osu?.
Yeah, who do they have cross over....
I dont know if Iowa will lose three..
With the tie break over Iowa..
Is there enough games that if we won out or dropped a close one to OSU we'd be at 3 conf losses?.
Raw numbers.
could we still win the west?.
If we can fix some shit against northwestern we are winning out..
anyone else see that tweet?.
Saw that the iowa offense is rockbottom in passing or something.
Monken is the truth and the lie, the alpha and omega.
Fuck the forward pass.
Run the damn ball!.
I stand with Jeff.
Get in early on finding a new coach.
Cause USC is taking one.
Heard LSU might end up moving on..
mid season let chins take over..
I dont see it happening.
Their offense is garbage.
But still if it does thats the ball game..
If he loses to nwestern fire frost.
if he loses to nwestern tarmac gang.
i think the team has made progress..
Tre young ran for 300 in two games behind a riley line.
We dont have that guy and we had plenty of talent to develop.
Ill give him the covid excuse but he needs to show something..
He was supposed to be.
He might be.
Find someone who can recruit and coach.
You think rex ameer helu ect..
would be picking up 2 yards a cut behind this line? They dont know where the hole is.
They dont make anyone miss.
They dont break tackles.
They dont break big plays.
Mills would be the starter in this unit and it wouldnt be close.
So they are worse than last year and mills was less productive than ozigbo..
Because he sucks at evaluating talent?.
Held has produced the worst running backs I've seen at Nebraska..
We'd upgrade both of them immediately.
Austin can bounce.
How many lineman did we take the first two years here and you have nothing to show for it..
He has been horrible..
Held can bounce.
+1 the lot of them.
How do you score if the red zone if you're line can only give you 2 yards in the middle of the field.
Even with the special teams being what it is if we were scoring in the high twenties it wouldn't matter..
They are fucking us so hard right now.
Worst oline in the ten and it's not close.
Bitch ass sad sacks need to recognize greatness.
Why recruit a 5 star when there are 5 star transfers that bust at Ohio state..
best defense in like forever.
This is is the worst yet as far as being ready to play from the opening snap.
when youve only won a third of your games every scenario is a losing scenario.
never forget that opening score against ohio state..
We need a punter.
Need to give him a chance to develop.
Teddy might be good but we keep putting freshman at tackle..
apparently.
He seemed so massive when he came on campus..
That's what I thought at first glance.
Why is he so weak? and Slow.
He always looks off balance..
Benhart has not taken flight yet thats for sure.
They are not.
The offense sucks.
I watch the same games you do..
Those blackshirts tho.
That's Nebraska football.
St sucks too.
Better than 2020 but are you trying to prove the offense sucks?.
Did they have timeouts?.
You incomplete on second there's 28 seconds?.
You take a timeout after the sack there's what? 36 seconds?.
Running it back to the twenty with 2 seconds left on the clock with a field goal to win it is what I saw happening.
I don't mind the decision.
It obviously didn't work.
I see the justification.
I vehemently refute any accusations of mismanagement.
Bit of a pussy move I guess.
We probably coulda taken a shot and been fine.
But the risk of giving up a field goal by fucking up is very real with this team..
Magic numbers..
I'm not sure other than convincing me we had more than a prayers chance of scoring.
Oh yeah got me.
We had just given up 7 on a bad punt.
What hindsight.
Or just not being able to cover a good kick and giving up a return to field goal range?.
Adrian three a pick theee plays later.
Why would he trust them.
The threat of fucking it up and giving them the ball in field goal range was more real than us getting downfield with our line protecting.
And missed three others.
Kicker is like 2 for 10.
To play it safe.
On our 40...
Still had to get a first on second and long.
Or a punt retiurned for a touchdown.
Not more recent than a fumble or a scoop and score.
When was the last time we drove the length of the field to win compared to the last time we dropped back couldnt protect and fumbled or gave up a punt for a touchdown..
Are we trying to prove how brave we are or are we trying to win football games.
I guess we'll agree to disagree on this one but I think it was a reasonable call at the time..
I'm not sure we can.
We've given upbig returns before.
Can we cover the return?.
The argument is the decision.
Which in hindsight it's real easy to say it was the obvious choice but given the way the game had gone the correct choice was to not risk dropping back or punting after we just got sacked..
Job well done.
Running out the clock?.
Manage what?.
Rather blame the kicker.
Not when it's undeserved.
I provided the reasoning accept it or don't.
Irrelevant to the call at the time when the game was undecided.
Cause we lost?.
Not blaming anything.
Just explaining to the frost haters you can make a good call and get a bad outcome nothing is promised in this life.
Or a fumble.
A long punt return and a field goal wasn't out of the question.
We coulda won the coin flip got to d up first and won the game.
Irrelevant to whether or not he made the right call.
Managed to perfection.
It was a choice to run the clock out.
That wasn't bad time management.
Good call bad outcome.
There wasn't much time.
Our oline can't protect and our qb had already fumbled getting hit from behind.
And has a history of not sensing pressure and fumbling.
They still had time outs? The special teams had been atrocious that game.
The defense was stingy.
I think In the moment the call had merit.
When ever we have to drive and score i know we are getting stuffed.
last one i remember is tommy throwing that pick in miami.
how many ots.
yeah, i can still see why he didnt.
i can see why he didn't go.
obviously hindsight is twenty twenty and it lost us the game.
worried about a 40 yard punt we cant cover.
was it third down?.
take it into OT play for a field goal.
I believe they still move the ball back the second round?.
you want to punt again?.
like a series before.
they just gave up a touchdown on a punt.
we werent scoring there.
you really want to take the chance of having to punt again?.
just run it.
take the field goal and then you get to d up first on the next round..
they werent going to get in the endzone on us.
I thought going to overtime was a good call.
Throwing on third and three instead of running with adrian and getting a field goal was the issue..
theres something wrong with the numbers if this is a middle of the road statistical team..
the d is as good as we could have hoped for.
The d shut them down.
If I'm frost I'm leaning hard on the run.
Give the line a heads up and be like this is your game.
We want to run the ball get it done.
See if they can get something going against a bad nwestern team.
If you can't dump the run and never look back..
This is a good game for that..
The line just needs to wake the fuck up..
Break out game for the running backs.
Think we get a long touchdown..
That's maybe less reasonable.
I think they struggle to score against us.
I think that's reasonable.
We'll be able to run it on them..
Once a season we put it together.
I think it will be against nwestern.
We can lose any game for sure.
MSU beat them pretty good and their offense wasn't that good.
I think the offense will look better.
We should win.
The line is horrible.
But kicking to the wrong side, slamming the qb after a sack.
Turnover is gonna happen.
Smothers was driving that ball...
Apparently.
It's as shocking as the tanner lee pick sixes.
It's everygame.
I'm saying.
How do you back to back false start in back to back games.
I've never seen a team blunder away every single game.
It's ridiculous.
But the defense is fun to watch.
In Oklahoma yes.
This last game...
We had this last game.
We had it locked.
He kicked that shit to the wrong side of the field how the fuck does that happen? We gave that shit away..
He's still good.
Idk if he woulda started with Thomas back strong.
D line has been good but having Rogers makes us better.
He's a good player I've been excited to see play.
Casey Rogers should be back this week.
gotta give the offense time to rest.
Probably that Maryland game.
Did we beat Minnesota on the road that one year we romped them?.
Im holding out hope that we just hit our stride and will start our exposing tour saturday.
kinda a big game but really when its a struggle to get to 500 they are all big games.
not if we lose to msu.
Theres a lot of players in the portal.
A lot of talent..
Yeah I feel like thats what they are doing.
Kinda inbetween the two of them.
Falck was the target.
Feel like people think MSU is better than Oklahoma.
He had a bad first game.
One who cares pick at Oklahoma.
Adrian is taking care of the ball.
Like it was in Oklahoma and kinda Illinois.
If we lose to MSU it will be special teams.
We've tackled well.
When we had to wed shut them down..
The oline sucks balls.
Betts and Omar contributed in big moments.
Adrian is playing great.
An all American at lber..
They had a really good dline.
Oklahoma has good backs.
A good oline.
A good qb..
Why do you think that?.
The d is playing with edge.
The soft zone chins runs is going to let people move the chains so a bunch of those stats we give up we do so to keep down explosive plays.
Teams haven't had many against us and haven't had many points..
And rising.
Upper third.
28th in scoring defense is middle of the road..
Only really had one pedestrian game.
Holding Oklahoma to 21?.
In what sense?.
If the expose MSU not upset.
That's the no hypest I can get.
MSU 3 nwestern 4 Purdue 5 Minnesota 6, Wisconsin 7.
Good thing all those games are behind us.
I think we sneak over 20 and grab.
You get as many sauces as you want if you need the sauce.
The chicken is juicy.
Dry as I'm they got no sauce.
If you use those descriptors no one.
But a cfa spicy sandwich is neither dry nor sandy.
Im the opposite on that.
The goopiness of the popeyes is too much..
Mo needed special treatment.
the popeyes sandwich is good.
but chick fil a is better.
breading difference.
the waffle fries at cfa are really good.
i like the cfa better.
the popeyes was good.
thats a ridiculous statement.
on the service, i prefer in and out over cfa.
in and out is pretty close tho.
best service too really.
I know coworkers who door dash.
You'll get some fat tips once and awhile.
Good way to make extra cash.
If I had a better car situation I'd do it..
there you go.
you guys up on cardona? if thats how its spelled.
Where you headed?.
If I make a fortune before Monday no more work for me!.
maybe ill get a decent amount and it will spike a little.
i guess it mines it on my phone to start?.
im going to try it out....
got an invite to an ico? guess its like a ipo for crypto.
I guess specifically has anyone made one?.
Anyone done anything with nfts?.
Idk drunk sports fans whos team just lost a game in the finals are pretty fucking bad.
My Twitter is full of go puff husker nil ads.
Not great tho.
Not a bad day at the plate.
Just giving us some runway for this trip to the moon.
Im going to ride the doge wave.
Beat the system.
Find out how to hook it up to some solar contraption or a wind mill.
If it goes back up again you're golden.
Let me live my life George.
Lol George will.
I remember him from the opinion section.
He one of those guys who hates backwards hats.
thats true with a lot of things.
that was one of the big selling points when it came out.
yeah figure it has to be worth their time.
theyll have to find me first.
Now there's room for growth.
Like a forest fireburning down old tall trees and second homes.
Now the forest can grow again.
dont know if hes drugged up but at the very least hes into the night life.
does have some shadows under his eyes.
You have a ring.
And I see your schwartz is as big a mine..
dark crystal, never ending story and legend with tom cruise were in the rotation a lot too.
That was one id rent over and over from blockbuster.
Just get that space balls robot made filter it out blow it back in.
its going to work itself out.
Who knows what technology is gonna be available going forward.
We'll probably be jet setting to mars by then..
now if you want some deep shit oil is actually created by the earth.
not by old dinosaur bones.
So the earth is constantly refilling its stores and we will never run out.
or so ive heard on certain youtube videos..
They've found more and more.
When i was in middle school they said we'd run out like 10 years from now.
When we do start to run out itll be more expensive and things will shift..
A little more complicated than people make it out to be i guess.
lol i dig it.
nvm ugghhhhhh.
i guess i know who he is..
lol who is this?.
Once we get to the moon do we have a plan to get back?.
thanks Obama.
I thought this was America..
Theta token is the full name.
Some kinda video currency if that matters.
Anyone know anything about theta?.
Let it go down so I can reup.
It's still up a half a dollar.
Half a US dollar for a joke coin.
I almost did before.
Everyone was planning to sell.
In it for a quick come up.
He's doing us a favor talking it up..
I'm not sweating it too hard.
I need to get a wallet where I can own my stuff anyways.
my wife put in a 100 and i panicked and told her to take it out right away.
im regretting just dipping the toe.
But at the time it was the right decision.
Step one find a meme star.
Step two get that bag.
Doge on its way to a dollar this is insane.
Things are worth what people will pay for them..
It seems fake tho.
I'm up almost 3k percent since I started it's insane.
That's the only option huh? I might wait for Elon sat night live then sell and buy on a little dip.
Is there a way to get my doge off of Robinhood and into a coinbase type situation.
I mess around with some jewelry so I could pour it into a coin..
Thinking of getting some silver.
Just to give it a whirl.
Did you buy it as an investment.
Anyone hold any precious metals?.
ive been seeing this a ton on all the platforms and it always makes me laugh.
like wins and losses.
Am I gonna be able to get my cash outa rh?.
its doge day on twitter.
doge in full burn.
50 by the end of the day?.
i was at 25 like 2 days ago now its 150.
the doge is outa control.
Fucking doge is outa control.
Almost at 30 cents.
$ud alt szn.
so its based on the price of a bitcoin or the value of the percentage your peeling off to pay your bar tab?.
transaction to what? by a candy bar.
I'd assume transaction fees will come down as it starts to become more prevalent.
I don't know if it will ever hit to where we are using straight bitcoin but ive predicted huge win totals for the huskers going back 15 years now and I wont be right until this season..
Make better solar panels..
doubt.
when the aliens land you think their gonna want your green paper.
id say bitcoin is more like gold than a currency..
The good economy was fine for awhile.
Economy outgrew it..
so i figure give it a shot.
not playing with the rent or booze money or anything..
I thought all the crypto stuff was bullshit till it wasn't.
its life.
yeah, i remember when the wsb thing was first grabbing my attention i saw a few people twitching it.
you watch that kaiser guy?.
i could be off.
yeah, and i feel like as it goes up it becomes more legitimate to people?.
im sure i do on RH but now i kinda wanna keep this doge long term.
yeah i just want to make sure I have it have it..
thats not bad.
Deere does.
apologize to yant marty.
mac for the win.
Run that ball.
You got your slow king.
Gave him that tmagic stat line.
They splitting it into parts? or just doing it all in one.
thought it was coming in novemeber.
Gonna have to catch this one in theaters.
White coulda won if he moved his front pawn for a queen instead if castling..
And checkmate?.
Naw the horse can hop in front.
Castle win?.
Is he just far back.
He looks tiny.
How tall did you make him?.
so are cat girls pets or people with cat ears....
i used to play magic.
What show is that off of?.
razor i think its called?.
you ever get one of those 4 wheelers?.
even if they struggle some id rather have yant run into a crowd.
Yeah part of it is the oline did a better job blocking.
He can move, doesnt hit the hole as fast as rahmir but i think that might be a good thing.
let the play develop before you run into the back of the oline.
nice to see a back who can break a tackle.
Yeah he just had to lose the weight..
i do think the other guys have potential.
Sevion could be good if he knew where the hole was.
he hits the right hole.
i think its gotta be rahmir and yant.
yeah i always hated his dad when i was in st louis.
kade warner.
2020 was a disaster, husker football was not immune.
who was a captian because of consistency.
as a captian.
the lbers are the best we've had in years.
the roster is much better.
thats the worry.
but we've been playing well.
you never know.
Yeah thats what im feeling.
then i adjusted and now im just another nebraska transplant in the crowd.
When I first came to best time i felt like superman.
Could wake up at 5...
could walk around in shorts and tshirt all year round.
Big TV market.
they gotta move them up to get viewers.
Because we will outshine them.
Not when Nebraska and Michigan are playing.
Hoping for that double loss.
they added that to ours too.
fucking man trying to keep the proletariat down with busy work.
and whos fault is that?.
for all the kids i work with cause tey have specific goals i track.
ugh i got to print out progress reports....
all wins....
is that the helu game?.
we are rolling these yuppie fucks.
thats all the proof i needed.
now i remember.
that one we won.
I cant remember that year for some reason.
we won that right?.
sorry.
shes asking for it.
huffing and puffing trying to keep the hype up the last 24 hours.
feel like i peaked my hype too early.
classic husker fan.
Deere living in the past.
helmet game for use.
they seem to be fired up.
taylors jr year we had a squad.
we just always played tight in big games.
but that may have been just nebraska catching up with the times.
he didnt get the recruiting support riley did.
Yeah bo got the most out of his guys.
i feel like these fired coaches are less bitter than the fans are.
then i turned on him after the melvin gordon game.
i really liked bo.
I thought he was going to win a natty with taylor.
Bo used to jog around my parents neighborhood.
ill have to.
theres a bo pelini ep?.
I also think i feel more confident with trev out here.
might have to listen to that one.
i think it can make a difference.
but places have an energy.
and where ever you go there you are.
problems travel for sure.
good question.
i could see us coming in fired up and just rolling.
just kinda depends if we can give adrian enough protection.
idk they might just come out and run away with it but i really doubt it.
At home, coming in with some mo, the defense is flying around.
Michigan is going to try to run it, i think our defense is ready for that.
wisconsin sucks tho.
oh year.
its like 3 hours away.
its exactly the same as nebraska.
thought you meant michigan.
oh wisconsin.
they havent played anyone.
we are surging.
I dont know if we make the playoffs with 3 losses.
We could still win the west.
This might be the hypest ive been for a game since i still thought we would beat wisc back when we had bo.
michigan has been all up on our boards.
best song on the lion king fight me.
move to kc if youre going that route.
better wyoming than ioha.
dont do that.
lincoln is nice tho.
bet on yourself.
dont play scared.
you may fuck around and get inspired up there.
yeah but youre in lincoln not seattle.
probably pay more in cali.
they need techs everywhere id imagine.
move outa the midwest.
you hate the truth.
nice thing about phoenix is a lot of places are just 5 hours away.
maybe ill go up there this week off.
san diego is gorgeous.
weather and the beaches.
Theres a lot of good shows that go one there.
I liked LA if it didnt have all the californians in it.
thing is people dont pump up LA.
and LA has somethings going for it no other city does.
you heard it too!.
and i was pulling into work so i couldnt call in.
he didnt realize the danger.
some iowegian was calling into dan patrick this morning talking about sending in some quality iowa corn.
maybe throw denver on that list.
or is that austin?.
Is Chicago the most overrated city in america?.
i havent heard them mentioned as a big ten member but they are in the area.
nwestern is a good school, so is michigan but fuck them.
we dont need to be super selective.
I like that we arent some snooty bullshit school.
Were a state school set up to educate the people of nebraska.
definitely need to watch this one at home.
I need some kind of plan for what to do if we win.
im ready for this game.
fuck michigan!!!!!!!!.
it was a good work hack.
they started doing that on our training videos a couple years back.
let me carry around this book so people know im above this sportsball stuff.
what a tool.
i dont know if i would consider them yuppies as much as nerds.
hes everywhere.
they just need to teach him how to catch.
i was rewatching a couple of the 40 minute games and reimer has had like 6 interceptions hit his hands.
Feel like jojo might just go off.
deere should be furious.
michigan has the yuppiest fan base.
they suck so much.
thats what im wondering.
a day before the michigan game?!.
Are you back to sadsacking?.
marty?.
whose doubting yant?.
kpai hohouli gybor all these guys are going to come up behind reimer henrich who are going to set a really high standard.
our linebacking core is going to be so sick going forward.
and its a half day.
so I just got once conference and i might be able to bounce early.
so close to this week off.
thats pretty big actually.
way too much work.
good for will.
im not great.
but all these years and only one accident and i determined not to be at fault.
and it rides kinda low.
my problem is i nail potholes and curbs all the time.
changing what?.
might get a hybrid.
took it from arizona to florida.
that civic has run for me.
I might get a new car soon.
no i have a 2007 civic.
yeah they havent seen any of them.
when i bring up their shirt they just stare at me.
that might take me 20 hours.
gotta put on fenderliners and reattach my bumper tho....
If I had started last night i coulda drove.
must be back in style.
rugrats, hey arnold, rockos modern life.
lol the kids are all earing early 00s nickelodeon tshirts.
I would be flying up there now instead of at work.
fuck i shoudla went to this game.
every time you stand at memorial you lose precious space on those god awful benches.
sounds like a pain in the ass.
lol why didnt it embed that.
If we can play without dumb ass mistakes we win by 30.
Definitely a risk of devastation hyping this game..
half stepping!.
did you parlay that?.
domann making some bank.
which is how the rush so freely.
yeah i think other stadiums have more students up on the field.
I think this is a borderline rushable game.
i doubt it will happen.
wilderbeast style.
just keep stacking bodies.
Im a sucker for field rushing tbh.
That one year kansas was good, i think they rushed the field like 5 times..
if they caught you on camera head start rushing youd make espn.
You better get a head start then.
You going to rush K?.
yeah something like that could sully an otherwise good W.
but id love to see it.
I dont know if michigan is worth that.
Think we'll rush the field if we win?.
Crowd should be nuts saturday.
oh yea, im way outa school.
this might be a good one.
man..
every iowa game ive been to we lost.
Are we at home against iowa this year?.
yeah sounds about perfect.
yeah woulda been a good one.
kinda kicking myself.
Was worried it might be cold..
which goes against everything i stand for.
shoulda pulled the trigger but i hesitated.
yeah, we dont play michigan that often.
nice i was considering coming back for this game since its right before my fall break.
apologize to yant!.
discords been fucking up that shit.
network is networth.
Diplo was solid for like 4 years.
Fran Drescher was born in 57.
they put one together for sure.
We are trending up..
when i worked at kmart they had a plan to use our workers to clean all the shelves in the store to make it look new.
They reintroduced the plan three times making names changes each time without changing the plan to where it could work..
sounds like he wants to extend your meeting.
Nebraska is good when...
they have a dominant defense, they have a running qb and they have a star back.
finally have some backers.
this is how it could look every year.
The blackshirts have given me life.
Yeah hes got that spark.
A little Gnelly hype.
Hate meetings like that.
No one ever over looks us.
A game against nebraska in Lincoln is still a big game.
closer, but not quite there yet.
Strip sacks are my fear.
Worried about turnovers.
If they can find time and Adrian can slip away from pressure I think our WRs can make plays.
We gotta get down field.
Is that the pass rusher?.
He's beating osu this year.
But it will be all about Michigan immediately after.
I think we'll start to get some respect going forward.
It's his fault.
Shelb was born that second.
You'll come around.
It'll be Michigan was overrated next week.
Keep moving those goal posts and watch frost keep knocking them through.
We told you at the start nwestern sucked and all we got was hand wringing.
If we beat Michigan we are going to get some attention.
I think the numbers are still off cause of the covid year so i dont know how hard they are going.
Wait till we beat michigan.
Now if we play michigan and run for 60 yards on 2 ypc then im going to readjust my prediction.
I think the offense can hang around and then make their move in the fourth when they dont want to tackle yant anymore..
I think the defense can keep them in the mid twenties.
This d can hang with anyone.
Ohio state doesn't want to scrap with us..
Cause we are the only brand name in the west.
We'll see how they feel when Nebraska beats them this year.
They are so nervous about us getting good..
I trade away a thousand nebraskaball wins for a win over iowa this year.
This is the best roster we've had in awhile.
defensive guys who can get off a block and make a play, or skill positions guys who can break a big one.
when was the last time we had this many playmakers.
yeah the roster is way better.
I think the coaching staff struggled early to get the every day operation smooth.
I think the roster he got was swiss cheese without a lot of high end talent.
We were asking freshman and sophmores to carry our offense..
Hes amazing on the run.
Hes just not super accurate and not really great at knowing where to go with the ball..
I guess i assumed hed want to be done but hes playing great.
so maybe he wants one more year.
yeah i dont think hes a pro guy.
He is, but man its been rough for him here.
You think hes coming back?.
If we can get some line play I think we have one of the better offenses in the conference.
yeah he was garbage in 19 but we couldnt snap, we couldnt run the plays correctly and the wrs were shite.
The play calling sucked too.
its so much better this year..
Im surprised the passing game is as good as it is, despite some line issues.
like 175.
little under 200 maybe.
all the running backs combined....
75 on the ground 225 through the air.
think hes close to 300.
buncha uncle ricos i guess.
LIke i love sports (nebraska football) but i dont watch and think, god i wish i was out there, so badly that i push my kid into that mess.
maybe if youre a former nba or nfl player or something.
who is the parent thinking about their kids career in sports....
worth it i guess.
technically i think 21 is the max but just for hypotheticals.
what if you were 22 by the time you graduated?.
How many nebraska players did you guys produce?.
its a tough call.
in the end if youre right around the cutoff it probably doesnt make too much of a difference.
for a lot of them sitting in a chair and doing something is a brand new concept.
watching a kinder class week one is wild.
is mostly what it comes down to.
We get some kids coming in young.
Its a safe place to put them while parents are working.
especially since if your kid is atheltic enough to be really good at sports at a meaningful level hes going to be way better than kids his/her own age.
thats pretty crazy.
and with a disability its definitely not best practice unless something crazy has happened.
eh the numbers on people held back are not great.
basically the philosophy im working under.
but i know exactly who to fail.
we are progress focused in my classroom.
Yeah we've got half days and grading left so I'm pretty low key here.
fair, i like the ball park nachos with the nacho cheese and jalapeno.
not a big fan of the super nacho type stuff with the extra goop.
If goign that route ill go fries over nachos..
hi Jey, how is your day going.
yeah..
cheese fries over nachos?.
what a goober.
a lot of wasted reps trying to get that screen game right.
gives us more space than the screens ever did.
think they added the option to replace the screens.
just think how good hed be on the wr option.
kenny bell talking shit on the triple option?.
triple option >>>>>>>> wr screens.
whats the connection between russ and cooking?.
Im missing the joke....
except russ.
I dont care how many stars you have.
if you choose wisc as a qb you suck..
he is a wisconsin qb, so yes.
no wonder they ducked us last year..
cant wait to play them.
wisconsin is straight garbage.
the hype is off the charts if we win this game.
huge opportunity to change the narrative.
in the end they'll realize their mistake.
but just like an antivaxxer getting put on a ventilator..
they are basically the plandemic crowd of husker football.
He has 2 years left? wow.
Line should be way better.
We could make a legit run..
idk ill be happy to have him back.
undersized.
hes sized maybe but hes explosive.
i figured they move him to guard.
eh im not sure.
Well if thats the case 22 is going to be a ride.
hes going to show out with the pro day stuff.
i think he might go pro.
think jurgens comes back?.
do we have a center for next year?.
still had that game..
fucking double false start.
i mean even smothers looks decent when he gets in.
He can run the offense at least..
its basically the oline holding us back..
and then they show kpai and ho'ouli the way.
we get those guys two more years too unless reimer goes early.
he had a couple early where he was there before the line could stand up.
i think you see it showing up on some of these third downs.
you dont see as many situations where the qb has all day.
still need that guy who can step around a guy and get to the qb.
which to bring it back is why husker fans are so excited.
just a completely different team.
even when we dont get to them we are still in their face.
the pressure has been better.
I thought they were desperately trying to find a pass rush.
plus we can rotate so many dlinemen.
yeah the d turned around when they went to that 4-3 look.
yeah basically.
think how garbage that group has been for us in the past.
first plus 3-4 linebacking core.
tannor and nelson are playing well too.
they tried to get henrich is pass pro and he held his own i thought.
4 instead of 12.
they close out guys so fast.
idk, i think domann is probably one of the best linebackers in the conf and reimer is right behind him..
on the second level at least.
we've got a lot more speed this year.
Slowing down their offense has always been the issue.
I see the cracks.
I honestly think we are probably one of the best three teams in the conference this year but do to early mistakes we are going to get dismissed from that convo.
OSU? is on alert.
I dont think they are exposable.
Thats our role this year.
We are exposing all the overrated teams we play.
my mizzou friends would always say, easy to cheer for the other team when youre up 50.
other teams hated rthat.
I talk shit when we are bad.
I'm definitely talking shit when we might be good.
yeah, and its seeing them put together multiple dominant games.
almost flawless.
I can see why people on the outside dont understand but if youve been watching nebraska football you see the difference.
If the line can put another game together we are going to make waves.
this thing came together at nwestern..
once this big red machine is rolling we are going to win the division 4/5 years.
If youre iowa you know the clock is ticking..
they hate us, and they are afraid we will return.
People got ptsd from our decade of dominance.
It made me angrier than it should have.
you dont know yet, but your going to find out.
was listening to a husker stream yesterday that had some bitchigan fans complaining how nebraska thinks they are going to win.
Last chance for frost to make this a great season imo.
see what he says.
Ask him Do you smell that?.
id like to think so.
You think the mccafferys are jealous of the mannings?.
We're only going to beat michigan by 28 sorry.
I'm a Mets fan.
I like the cardinals.
Enjoyed following them when I lived in St.
But I am born and raised mets fan.
Maxhype Albert Pujols tho.
Fuck the cubs 4 lyfe.
