I don't know if we'd identified any particular places and made them priorities.
We're going to go where the players are.
I don't care where they are, if they're in Jamaica or Kazakhstan, we're going.
If they're in Michigan, so be it.
We're going to come up and try to get the best players we can.
You know, I think everybody in the state and in our building were happy with the progress that we made and kind of the results at the end of the season.
And it was a long, hard road through that time.
There was a lot of things that had to get changed, fixed, adjusted.
We're still working on it.
It's a never-ending process.
It's never going to be perfect.
It's never going to be done.
It's never going to be complete.
But we were certainly farther down the road at the end of the season than we were at the beginning.
I think our team did a really good job of picking up from that point and moving forward.
Love the attitude in our locker room right now and the work ethic that they've been showing all off-season.
We cost ourselves arguably a bunch of games just because of those things, mentalities and attitudes and decisions, and hopefully we have a lot of that fixed.
Well, we coached a lot of really good kids and really good players in Orlando.
We've got a lot of really good kids and really good players in Lincoln.
Those two teams have nothing to do with one another, and I'm never going to make any comparisons.
I love where I am.
I'm the coach at Nebraska.
We're concerned about this team.
I love the progress this team has made.
But you guys get to make all the predictions and prognostications.
I get to coach the team, so I don't know about any results.
I don't think our kids feel pressure.
They're just excited to play.
We're better.
We're better than we were a year ago, and the rest of it we're going to have to earn.
I don't remember saying that directly to the coaches, but I think any time you take over a business, an organization, a sports team, year 2 get easier than year 1.
There's a lot of groundwork that had to be laid.
Nebraska is one of the teams that for a long time was one of the blue bloods of college football and winning as many game as anybody.
That wasn't built overnight.
It's not going to be built overnight again.
I have a strong sense that we're way ahead of where we were a year ago, and I think we'll keep improving from here.
I think we'll be a better team every time we get to play one of the teams that are on our schedule.
Yeah, I wouldn't trade our guy for anybody in the country at that position, at the quarterback position.
On top of being a great player, he's just a great individual, exactly what we're looking for to run our offense.
We're probably going to go as far as he can take us this year.
I played the position, not as well as he plays it, but I played the position.
And from personal experience and coaching experience, I think particularly at that position, your biggest jump comes from your first year of playing to your second year of playing, and I've seen that happen with some of the guys that I've coached, as well.
As good as he was last year, if we get a similar jump, we're going to be really strong at that spot.
Probably of all the areas we've improved, strength and conditioning across the board on our team has improved the most.
It's fun to go down and watch in the weight room and see what our guys are doing.
We were kind of starting from square one when Zach Duval and our strength staff, who are as good as there is out there, got ahold of our guys.
We couldn't even really do the workouts at that point that he wanted them to do because I don't think they were prepared for that.
He didn't think they were prepared for that.
So we were really starting at go a year and a half ago.
To look now and see what our guys are doing in the weight room and really just looking at them when you walk by them and seeing them in the locker room, in the hallways, they look completely different.
This is a big, physical league.
There's a lot of big, physical teams, a lot of really good teams, and regardless of your scheme on offense or defense, you can't get pushed around, you can't get outworked, and you can't get outsized.
We made a lot of strides to catch up, and I think that will show up on the field.
Yeah, it was a pretty easy choice, honestly, to bring Adrian, because number one, he deserves it.
He's as good a player as we have, and I think as good a player as a lot of people have around the country, so he deserves to be here.
Just letting you guys in on a little secret, usually we would bring seniors.
We're not going to have any seniors, or very many seniors on offense this year.
Coaches also kind of think we've got to bring a guy that is going to speak well to represent us and say and do the right things, and he's the poster child for that.
He deserves to be in the spotlight.
He can handle it, he's ready for it, and he's here.
Yeah, center, left guard, we're waiting to see which guys emerge.
There's going to be a few competitions on our team for some spots.
I think most of the spots on the team are pretty clear-cut who the top guys are going to be.
But that can shake out in fall camp, too.
We still have a few holes, but most teams do.
We still have depth issues at a few spots.
But show me a team that doesn't.
We're like anybody else.
We're going to need to stay healthy this year and have a few guys step up.
We feel really good about some spots, and losing those two interior guys certainly didn't help.
But we have some good talented young guys that I think have the potential to be even better.
We just need that to come to fruition quickly.
It was really important, considering how we approached practice this week, letting the guys rest this week and really light practice on Tuesday.
It's easy to not come in prepared to play, and I thought at least at the start of the game the guys were really dialed in and ready to go.
That set the stage for the rest of the things we wanted to accomplish in the game which is getting some other guys in and then finishing it off.
Those are great, turnovers are great.
That's one of the areas we've been lacking.
We've got to create turnovers to get the offense the ball back.
It's good to see those in this game, I hope they carry over into some of the other games we have the rest of the year.
We blocked everybody on that play.
Our special teams did get better, I think they have been improving.
Confused special teams plays probably cost us a couple games this year and it was good to see us finally get one on special teams.
You score on defense or special teams, you're going to win most games.
We haven't had one yet, so it was good to see us break the ice.
We needed that to happen.
We needed to go out and get the game secured early.
I've said it a bunch, 12 weeks in a row is a long time, 13 weeks of practice in a row of practice is a long time without any break.
It isn't just the physical, it's the grind of it.
It takes a toll on you emotionally, especially with what these guys have been through this season.
We needed a break, we didn't get one.
Physically it was important for us to put the game away so that the guys could play 30, 35, 40 snaps and be done.
I think that's going to help us down the stretch with the last four.
Absolutely.
I think they knew if they went out and took care of business that some of those other guys would get some reps.
Then, you've got (Matt) Jarzynka making sacks and the guys going crazy and some other guys out there making plays that haven't gotten a chance to yet.
That kind of feeling of team and camaraderie has really grown over the course of this year and it was exciting to see the old guys that excited for the kids that haven't played much.
I've seen Noah practice for a long time and I know how good of a player he is.
There were some things that I think he could have done better.
We made too many mistakes when those other guys were in there, but it was good seeing him get in the end zone.
I know growing up here, when I was little that was all I could think about was scoring as a Husker and it's been kind of a weird path for him to get there, but it was great to see him dive into the end zone at Memorial Stadium.
Simply, he hadn't played yet this year, Bunchy has gotten a shot this year.
I think both guys are capable, both guys are great guys.
Noah's been practicing really well and I know how good of a player he can be, and he already is.
We thought it was time to give him a shot and let him his run out there.
Yeah, JoJo is a guy that every time we've been ready to give him an extended role he's had a little health issue this year.
Kind of felt bad for him but he's good enough to play for us at safety, he's playing a little nickel.
We need more guys and more depth and guys that are capable of making plays, and I saw JoJo make a few out there today.
We're making fewer mistakes.
There's still one 15-yard penalty, I don't know what that is yet, we've gotta get that cleaned up.
Having officials at practice I think has helped, so the guys understand and don't practice bad habits.
But, more than anything, just the standards of the team have gone up and the expectations among the players for what's acceptable and what's not have gotten better and that's led to fewer penalties.
We've gotten a little, some of the coaches have gotten quite a bit.
The only people, in my experience, shouldn't look too far ahead are the play callers on both sides.
You don't want to get your wires crossed thinking about one team while calling the play for a different team.
That doesn't always happen, but you have to be careful.
Any game we go into, we're going to go with 100 percent of our focus to make sure we can do the best we can in the game, but I think quite a few coaches have gotten a look at them and we'll get a good game plan ready tomorrow.
We'll find out, I hope quite a bit more.
I think we're a more disciplined team, I think we're a more efficient team right now.
Hopefully the last two means we're going to be more of a confident team.
We've got to go on the road to a tough place to play a very good team that's going to be ticked off and had two weeks to practice since their last game that didn't go well for them.
We know what we're in for, we're going to get their best shot.
I don't want to compare two teams in our league, we're going to play them both.
I'm appreciative of them for coming.
I think it was great for both teams, it was the type of game we needed.
I'm sure the amount of money we're paying for them to come up is something they needed.
I think both teams got out of the game really healthy, which is what both coaches wanted, and I think it was a win-win for everybody.
Would've loved to see their band, but I'm a bigger fan of Nebraska's band, so those are good people that we just played and I think they had a good experience, and I'm glad it happened the way it did.
In the January recruiting cycle, we wanted to look around and take a look and see if we thought anybody fit us and if they did take our best swing at them.
This year was different than last year.
Last year, there was quite a bit of really good players still available after the first signing day.
This year, there weren't near as many and the guys that were got recruited by everybody.
I've been doing this long enough to know that sometimes when you want to just take another guy or two to fill a spot, those don't turn out as good as often as guys you've recruited and know well.
So, we did our best to get to know some guys and take some looks at some guys that we thought might still be able to help at certain positions but we weren't going to reach and take guys just to take them.
I think this is probably where we'll land going forward and I think most people will.
I think people are landing there because that's the trend right now.
Like I said last year, there was a good number of good players that didn't sign.
There were still some last year, but not the same numbers.
If this year is any indication, most people are going to sign their classes early and you better have the guys in the boat that you really want with a few spots in your back pocket if you're doing it right.
Just being honest, when you come in as a new coach you're two years behind because you're just trying to come in here.
We were just starting to look at 2019 guys last year that we could get to Nebraska in December.
We're a lot farther down the road now, looking at 2020s already in January, some 2021s.
We're probably still a half a cycle behind, but that's going to be easy to catch the rest of the way up in May, having already looked at some young kids in May recruiting.
We can be a little bit more specific with some of the targets we've already found and we'll probably be able to get even farther ahead with the 2021 class.
There's nothing about what we're trying to do that can get fixed at the drop of a hat.
Coming in, there was a couple of position groups that were desperately low with scholarship players and players in general.
There were some things we had to fix to get them the way we wanted them.
We're getting a heck of a lot closer, but going into this recruiting cycle I wanted to take the best players I could and try to help our team as much as we could knowing we weren't going to be able to fill all the holes and get all the pieces that we want in one year.
I say this about a lot of the guys, but first thing is that we really liked him as a person, really enjoyed his family.
Demariyon is a kid that can really run.
Our offense, as long as I've been in it, has been really successful and dangerous when we have a bunch of people that are weapons and can do a lot with the ball in their hands.
Demariyon's got legitimate speed, was a good player on both sides of the ball and returning kicks down in Oklahoma.
Receiver was one of the areas that we were way below the number of players that we need or would like to have when we walked into the door a year ago.
That was one of our priorities, to get some guys in and bring them along and start developing.
We felt like we could use one more and we were glad he was available.
I don't want to get into specifics, but we have a baseline number for how many outside backers, inside backers, D-Line and so forth that we'd like to have on scholarship.
It's never exact, you're always one over at one spot, one under at another spot, but we're getting a lot closer to where we need to be from a depth standpoint.
Losing Stanley (Morgan Jr.) is going to be tough to replace.
He was a great player around here for a long time, gosh I enjoyed being around him for a year.
Hopefully, some of these young guys that we brought in can help fill the gap.
There are some guys on campus that I'm expecting to make huge jumps this year.
A lot of times, the first year in a system, some kids don't quite flourish and they make a huge jump in year two.
There's a bunch of guys already on the roster from (Jaevon) McQuitty, to (Jaron Woodyard) Woody to Mike (Williams) to Andre Hunt, to even some walk-ons like (Wyatt) Liewer and (Bennett) Folkers.
There are a bunch of guys that I think can take a step forward and help us next year.
There's a bunch of candidates to get us with three-four good wide receivers on the field and I feel a lot better about that than I did a year ago.
We fought hard for a lot of our commits, a lot of guys put a lot of time in for these guys and I tip my cap to the coaching staff.
Coach Fisher, Coach Chinander, Coach Held, Coach Verduzco and Coach Dawson were all involved in recruiting him.
I think he felt at home here, I think he felt like this was a good opportunity.
He's a dynamic playmaker, he's aggressive.
You saw him hit on Wandale (Robinson) in the All-Star Game and you could kind of see what both kids are made of from that play and that game in general.
I love that we're adding more speed, I love the attitudes that we're adding, I like the toughness we're adding and Noa certainly is a part of that.
He signed in December, and we kept it under our hat as best we could to allow him to announce it at the Polynesian game the way he wanted to, but he's a big addition for us.
The first thing I'm anxious about is the transfer portal is going to be old news very soon, as many kids that are going to put their name in.
Obviously we've had some kids go in.
There's going to be different circumstances.
We had one kid go in that just wanted to look around, but his heart was here and we welcomed him back.
I think it's going to be more and more important for coaches to have great relationships with their kids and have a building that everybody wants to be in and keep everybody happy so you don't lose them.
But there's going to be kids from all over the country in that portal.
I think it's going to be important to have a spot or two in your back pocket in case the right kid becomes available.
For us, it's got to be the right kid.
It's got to be someone that's going to fit on our team and it's somebody that's talented enough to help us.
We'll certainly keep our eye on that and we have some flexibility to take one or two of those if the situation arises.
Well, you don't become a captain of a team unless you're a good teammate, and we want kids who are good teammates.
I think he was anxious to play with his brother for a year.
His brother kept hinting at it and we kept telling him we couldn't do anything until the season was over, and if he put his name in the transfer portal.
After he did, honestly it happened really fast and this is where he wanted to be.
So we were glad to add a piece on our defensive line and I think he's going to help us.
Devine ended up being such a big piece for us last year.
I think he surprised everybody, maybe even including himself, in how well he performed this year.
I think he's got a future in football.
That's tough to replace.
That being said, I think the group we have, led by Mo Washington and some other young guys, are going to make that position more talented than it has been.
But we're going to be really young, so we felt like we needed to add somebody that maybe had some experience.
Getting to know Dedrick, he's taken an unusual path to get where he is, but we really enjoyed being around him and getting to know him and seeing what he's fought through.
He's got some work to do to get here, but we feel confident it's going to get done.
He's more of an every-down back, somebody that's older and hopefully a little more durable, and a very talented player.
So we need to get him here and evaluate all that, but we're excited about him.
T-Fish has had great players everywhere he's been.
He does a great job managing his room, he does a great job recruiting to get talent in his room.
That's going to be a really talented group of kids.
There's some older guys with Dicaprio , with Deontai .
There's going to be a lot of young talent, too.
So some of those old guys are going to have to keep playing well.
They're going to have to compete a little more and they're going to have to show that they can be leaders.
Some of the young guys were anxious to get in here and let them run around and compete.
I think that's going to be a deeper unit than we've had.
To be honest with you, that group struggled a little bit to adapt to the way we wanted to do things early on in the year.
The message to me coming out of the weight room is that group's about the best one in the weight room right now.
Between the strength and conditioning group and Coach Fish and Coach Chinander, I think that group's in a really good place and will be for a while.
Well my office overlooks the weight room, so I don't get to see a lot but I can look down and watch them working out.
Last year, we had guys that couldn't even get through workouts that had no idea how hard we wanted them to work, and weren't motivated to do it.
Looking down this year, we're not starting from square one this year.
We're starting in a good spot.
I love what I see.
I love the good weight that people have put on.
I love the look of the bodies and I love even more the attitude that I'm seeing down there.
So that's where you can really transform your team and make it bigger, faster, stronger, and more importantly make it tougher and more close-knit.
I see really good things happening in there.
We're going to have an open competition at center.
Obviously Will Farniok is coming back.
Hunter Miller has a chance.
I think there's some guys playing guard right now that we're going to have to have snap the ball some to give us options with those guys.
Obviously Cam Jurgens moving there is going to be a piece of that, too.
So there's going to be open competitions at every spot and there's going to be some interesting ones in the spring, and center is definitely one of them.
When we had Marcus Mariota at Oregon, it was kind of tough to get the right guy for a couple years.
I think everybody could see what he was, and I don't know if you were necessarily going to sign the best kid in the country the next year after he had started as a redshirt freshman.
With that being said, here, Luke was one of our top guys on our board from the beginning.
He's a type of kid who's not afraid of competition.
I can't believe how quickly he's come in here and learned stuff, how hard he's been working and how excited he is.
So I think we got a really good one in this class.
We've got one coming in already for next class that I can't talk about.
You're not going to find an Adrian every day, but I love the kids that we're adding, including at that position.
To be honest with you I think that getting to know kids and getting an honest evaluation of their character on top of their talent leads you to getting the right type of kid.
I think the way we recruit lends itself to us getting those type of kids.
I think those type of kids are attracted to my coaching staff and the guys in our building because when they get to know us they see the character of these assistant coaches and other people and those are the kind of people they want to be around.
I think they see the honesty in the way we recruit them, the genuine nature in the way that we approach it and that appeals to the right type of kid.
I don't know if I have seen an incoming class in my career that has me as excited From that standpoint, you can go across the board as see kids that were winners in high school, were team captains in high school, were in state championships that were in playoff games and semifinal games and state championships.
I don't think we are going to be short on leadership from this class.
Yeah almost every single one.
I could just address the guys that are already on campus.
I don't know if I have seen a kid work harder in an offseason to learn an offseason than Luke (McCaffrey) and he has been kind of a little bit of the ring-leader of that group already.
Wandale (Robinson) is kind of the same way, coming in and learning and he is going to be able to play more than one position in his first year because of the way he learns and the way he approaches things.
Nick Henrich is cerebral and smart and a problem-solver and tough and I know he is going to be a leader on defense.
Garret Nelson is a wild man, I love it.
His energy is going to lead us in some good directions.
Chris Hickman, same way.
Brant Banks, same way.
Jamie Nance is doing a good job.
So, all these kids that are here I think have leadership potential.
The great thing is they're not the only ones and we have some more coming.
Touching on a few of them, Tate Wildeman is looking great, he was dealing with a knee last fall.
Cam Jones, had a shoulder and he is doing great in the weight room right now.
Casey Rogers had a shoulder , he is doing a great job and putting on weight.
CJ Smith is the one that got hurt in the middle of the season and that might take a little longer.
For the most part, all the other guys that we didn't have last season are up and going.
Man, those guys are going to make a difference in the team if they can approach this in the right way.
We will find out at spring ball how much work they were doing.
I called them the a__black sweatshirt posse' because they all sat on the same place on the wall during practice, wearing the same hooded sweatshirt.
Usually, the same one I had on so I went over and joined them from time to time.
Those guys are driven.
I mentioned Tate (Wildeman) and Casey (Rogers), Cam Jurgens, Cam Jones, Braxton (Clark) was over there a little bit.
There are some really talented kids and I would get a little upset looking over at how much talent we had sitting on the wall.
It was kind of just an unfortunate set of circumstances for those kids.
That is going to be almost like getting four or five or six more recruits in this class and guys that already have experience with our team.
So, I am anxious to put all those pieces together.
Yes.
First years are hard.
It is different for someone who Adrian (Martinez) or someone like that who comes in and plays, that is rare.
For the guys that have to redshirt, you are used to being a high school superstar and a junior high superstar and Pop Warner superstar and you come to a place and you don't even get to play the game, you're just practicing.
It can be hard on some kids.
Some kids use it the right way and take advantage of that year and really get bigger, stronger, faster, and learn scheme and they come back even better.
Some other kids struggle a little more.
The great thing is that I think we are going to get all our guys through that and they're all in a really good place right now.
I have to be honest with you, I haven't seen Mo (Maurice Washington) since I have been off the road.
I am sick of traveling and I am anxious to see him.
 I know (Head Strength and Conditioning Coach) Zach (Duval) is working hard with him and (Director of Performance Nutrition) Dave Eilis is working with him.
And he is not alone, there are a lot of guys that we need to get bigger and stronger and to mature.
I know how special Maurice could be if he was 200 to 210 pounds and he certainly didn't come in at that weight.
We are working hard with him, I think his biggest issue is making sure he is eating right and the nutrition side of it because he is working his butt of in the weight room.
Yeah, we want to grow the roster again.
That was one of the secret sauces around here for a long time.
Kenny Wilhite has done a great job with that.
Trent Mossbrucker in our recruiting department, Gerrod Lambrecht has done a great job with that.
I expect great things out of these walk-ons.
Kids that we're bringing in, we've brought a bunch in, in these last two classes.
I think it'll be very soon when some of those guys start helping us and down the road a little further, I think a lot of those guys are going to contribute playing and hopefully start for us.
But, I'm not going to just let guys be on the team just to be on the team either.
So, it's going to be competitive just like your opportunity to be a starter at the university is competitive.
That will put us in a really good place of where we have the right type of kids.
Kids that are on the team for the right reasons and hungry to be here.
We kind of have a clearance to be in the 150s, and probably low 150s.
I imagine there might be a little attrition.
There might be some guys that don't end up making it and some other things.
Some guys that graduate and move on.
We'll deal with that as the situations arises.
I imagine we'll end up in the 150s somewhere.
I want good people, and I want athletic potential.
Some of the guys we have are big and have huge frames and are good athletes.
Spencer Long is just a great example of what we're looking for.
He's a guy that was a tight end.
I don't think he ran quite long enough to be an NFL tight end, but he had a huge frame and a really good athlete.
A guy in this program got in strength conditioning and ends up being a great player in the NFL.
Not every guy has to be an over O or D-Lineman, but I certainly think there's a lot of those running around the Midwest and Nebraska, certainly looking for other positions, too.
If guys are going to play here, it's going to get harder and harder to play here and they better have some really good athleticism about them and better have a high upside.
If they do, we'll get them in the weight room, with the right attitude and they'll hit the field.
Moving forward, I hope we can afford to take that many numbers and we'll see where we can get our total roster to.
We're going to start to get a little more selective.
With that being said, if there is a great player in the state of Nebraska or surrounding states, and they want to be at Nebraska, and we'll find a way.
We're starting to get a lot of things about the roster where we wanted, including roster size and some guys we can really look forward to developing because we think they're going to help us from the walk-on program.
I'm not used to having Christmas off.
It was nice to be with family.
I don't ever want it to ever happen again.
I've said this before, I've never been so anxious to get started the next year like I was at the end of this past season.
Our entire team had that attitude.
It was great to see the Big Ten have good success from bowls.
There was some really good performances by Big Ten teams that we've battled with and played well with.
In some cases, had the chance to win or won the games.
It lets me know that even though the program wasn't anywhere near where I wanted it at the end of last season, maybe we're not that far away.
I think that can be a beacon of hope for all of us as we're working really hard this offseason.
I know Zac (Taylor) pretty well.
I would actually talk to Zac when he was playing here.
It's kind of a Nebraska quarterback brotherhood that exists with most of us.
Zac married the daughter of my head coach when I was in Green Bay.
Coach Sherman's daughter would be at practice in Green Bay.
All I know about Zac is that he is a football guy.
Everything I've ever heard about him is how much he loves the game, so he would be a reason to try and root for him and Cincinnati a little bit, and we wish him nothing but the best.
The biggest difference I see is how kids walk onto our floor more often.
They are around the coaches, they have smiles on their faces.
I think everybody is excited, and that's a far cry from where we were.
I walked into the first team meeting room, and you could've heard a pin drop in there.
That's not the team I want to coach.
I want a team to where I walk into the team meeting room and they a__re having fun and chatting it up and love being around each other and then they can dial it in and get to work.
The attitudes that I see and the comradery that I see isn't even on the same level, not even close to where it was a year ago.
I give credit to all of the assistant coaches that are working with them every day.
I think these guys are ready to have a lot of fun.
I saw him this morning.
He was going to class, I think.
He had a high ankle sprain, don't need to say much more about it.
He was so close to playing in the Iowa game, but just couldn't change direction well enough to trust him out there.
I’ve had too many of those conversations with these guys.
I just told the seniors that I love them and appreciate them.
They’ve been through a lot.
They’ve been through a lot in their four years.
They’ve been through a lot this year.
I’m grateful for them.
We’re going to miss a lot of those guys.
Then for the young guys, I just told them that we keep coming up just short.
There’s about 100 different ways you can get better to make sure the outcomes are different.
It wasn’t an insertion, new quarterback thing.
We had a package for Noah [Vedral], and we had a little package for Luke.
With the runner that Luke is, we figured a team might come running up to stop his run and give us a big play, and it happened.
We kind of had the same thing set up for Noah.
That one didn’t work.
The one with Luke did.
There at the end, we are just trying to get the best play call.
Didn’t really consider it.
We have three really good quarterbacks.
I love all three of those kids.
I didn’t think tied in the fourth quarter at 24 was the right time to do that.
I understand what he was thinking.
It’s hard for a player to probably go straight from ‘we’re going to score and win this game’ mode to getting a 15 yard penalty.
I haven’t seen it yet, but that can’t happen.
Maybe I could have used a timeout there to make sure the kids understood.
The next play we just called a quarterback run.
In my mind, it was either get a big chunk back and get us to third down or keep the clock running with them only having one timeout keeping the ball inbounds.
A lot of things went right, and quite a few things went wrong for us at the end.
Really it was about three plays on defense in the first half.
Our edge lost contain on the reverse.
That can’t happen.
We had an assignment error.
We got cutout on the backside of another one for another long run.
We missed a tackle on another one.
Aside from that, I thought our defense held their own in the run game.
They did a really good job against the pass.
The kid [Nate Stanley] is probably an NFL quarterback with an NFL arm.
We didn’t give up much there.
Those two big plays and the kickoff return really cost us.
I have to find that out.
I’m just being honest.
We went into the game not wanting to kick to them.
We thought our coverage unit could do a good job.
We were going to pooch the first couple.
I just got done calling the series and didn’t make it over to the kickoff team.
The timing is a killer.
It’s the same as the Wisconsin game.
We had everything rolling our way and give it right back.
Exactly the same thing happened today.
They have good special teams.
Our’s have to get better.
We have to getter in all three phases, and we will.
Special teams definitely needs to get better.
You see teams with good special teams, it can change games.
In these close games, turnovers and special teams make the difference.
We got pinned down in the fourth quarter when we had all the momentum coming from the third quarter.
We got pinned down deep a couple times and couldn’t let the offense fly.
That kind of killed our momentum.
That hurt us.
We didn’t punt it really well going against the wind in the fourth quarter, and that kind of hurt us and gave them field position.
The defense kept stepping up.
Then obviously, the kick return killed us.
They’ve got a really good kicker, and he made the kick to win it.
One area of many we need to improve on.
We weren’t going to leave anything out.
We had a short week where we weren’t going to leave anything in the tank.
We had some good stuff for them.
They did a good job staying disciplined on a couple things.
We tried to throw a swing pass-double pass to Wyatt Mazour, who played quarterback in high school.
The safety did a good job of staying deep.
That killed a drive for us.
We didn’t get a block on the reverse.
That hurt.
We missed Adrian on the reverse pass.
The one thing that did is it kept them back, and I think that helped open up the run-game a little bit.
We felt like we needed to shoot those shots early when were down 14 because we needed something good to happen to get back in it.
Our guys did a good job in third quarter of being physical and marching the ball.
I can talk more about that later, we’re going to have time to evaluate a lot of things.
I saw a stat, before we went out, where he is in Big Ten yards per game—he’s doing a lot of good things.
I think this team’s confidence can sometimes be fragile, and that’s the team that we inherited and that’s one of the things we’re focused on the most.
I loved how we played at Maryland, they played with confidence, they played together, and I thought there was a lot more of that out there today.
Winning’s a habit, losing’s a habit, and our team, this whole thing, needs some good things to happen so our guys can start building on it.
Momentum’s a powerful thing.
You know, Adrian’s been hurt this year, been nicked up, that certainly affected it.
We need to find more people that can be open for him more consistently so he can trust that, we got to protect him better.
I’m not defending anybody on the team, we all need to get better, but there’s a lot of things that need to happen a lot better around whoever’s playing quarterback.
We certainly would have liked to get our young guys more practices.
That said, it doesn’t seem like it right now, coming off this game, but I know how much ground we’ve covered already.
There’s a lot of things that needed to get fixed, and I think a lot of those have been addressed.
I think when you plant a seed, you don’t necessarily see sprouts right away.
There’s a lot going on underneath the ground before you see things shooting out of it.
I know a lot of things have gotten better.
We still have a lot of work to do, and we’ll evaluate a lot of that.
I know there’s a lot of people around here that are hungry to get that little bit better so we can win some of those close games.
Just that it’s coming.
We all know it’s coming.
The guys in the locker room know it’s coming, the coaches know it’s coming.
There’s no timetable for it.
Sometimes it happens quicker than you think, sometimes it takes a little longer.
I know we’re doing the right things and getting the right guys in here, developing guys the right way, and it’s coming.
I think we were in about six close games this year, and we went 2-4.
Sometimes a little bit of confidence, a little bit of momentum, one more guy, one more play.
There’s about four games you can point to one play and say if that play is different, that game’s different.
We still have a long way to go, and at the same time, when you come up one play short in several games, you’re not that far away either.
It’s coming, and I think people recognize that, and we’ll make sure the recruits recognize that too.
Wan’Dale tried, and one of the reasons I love that kid is he’s a competitor, and he’s going to be out there if he can.
He tried to go, but I think the hammy (hamstring) just kind of clenched up on him again.
Even in warmups, he was telling me he could go, but I didn’t really see him cutting it loose.
That was one more weapon we didn’t have after about a quarter - quarter-and-a-half, and we have to get more guys out there that are big players for us.
I wasn’t worried about the time left on the clock there, I was more thinking about if we get one big play we’re in field goal range and if we don’t I don’t want any time left on the clock.
The substitution of the quarterback didn’t really matter.
We were in a two tight end set and we wanted to get speed on the field.
I was keeping an eye on it, making sure we were going to get the snap off ahead of time.
Luke (McCaffrey) probably had a guy open in the flat and didn’t take it, but he did a pretty good job scrambling.
It would’ve been 3rd-and-five, given us a chance to win the game, but the penalty there really hurt us.
“I was happy with how the offense played.
That’s a really good defense we played today, and we knew we weren’t going to get that many snaps.
We got, the last I saw, was 60 snaps.
We played well on offense.
Came up a little short on a couple of fourth downs, made a couple mistakes.
For the most part I thought those guys fought.
No it hasn’t improved the way we wanted it to.
If it would, we wouldn’t be where we are as a team with our record.
There’s good things happening.
We need more pieces.
We were short some pieces today that weren’t healthy, weren’t out there.
We need some more help for those guys.
It’s a great opportunity for recruits to come in and help us.
There are some other things I think we need to fix as a staff.
So, it’s on all of us.
It needs to be better.
If we can get to a point where we’re giving up less than 30 a game, I like our chances with where our offense is going, but we've got to get there on both sides.
I thought the offensive staff did a great job with the game plan.
Credit to Wisconsin for everything they did today but that’s a defense that - I don’t know three shutouts or whatever and holding people to 80 yards rushing - I thought the staff did a great job coming up with a plan to give us a chance with a limited number of snaps.
We put him in some stuff that he was a little more comfortable with and he just got more chances today.
Also, a bunch of credit to the offensive line.
I thought those guys probably had their best run-blocking game of the year.
Well we've got to get better in all three phases.
Special teams is especially one of them.
Against a team like that, if you’re going to upset, when you get your chances you have to take advantage of them.
I’ve been telling the team all week, conviction.
Go make it happen.
Ain’t nobody going to give you anything in life, nobody’s going to give you anything in football.
You have to go earn it, you have to go take it and when you go up seven and you have all the momentum and you kick a high ball to the whatever yard line it was caught on, and give up a kick return, you just flushed away a chance to be in control of the game.
So that needs to get better.
We can’t miss field goals.
We can’t give those things up, but it’s all three phases.
I thought again at times they did well then there was a couple of breakdowns here and there.
If you’re ahead of a team like that, good things are going to happen, you put them in a game they don’t want to be in.
We had chances to be ahead in the game.
We were.
We gave up the kick return, then we get ahead again and tackle poorly on a drive and give up a quick touchdown, and then they caught a break with the tipped pass and you’re playing them toe to toe, looking them right in the eye and matching them blow for blow.
Then all of a sudden you look up and it’s 24-10, but that’s where a good team goes out and makes it happen, and I need to keep working to get our team to a point where they believe it and go out and make it happen because we had chances today.
Adrian is going to keep getting better.
As good of a year as he had last year, you still forget he’s still a true sophomore.
He’s a really good player and he’s going to make whatever plays we need him to.
I give Coach (Thomas) Hammock and that team a lot of credit.
Defensively they’re tough.
They’re tough to prepare for because of all the slanting and blitzing and everything that they do.
Jumping around on third down and then in this game we had prepared for what they had done the first two games and every time we ran 11 personnel with three wideouts out there, they ran a three-three stack that we hadn’t prepared for at all.
So we had to stay in two tight ends a bunch and kind of alter what we were doing and I give them a lot of credit for the way they coach that team, that’s a good team.
We preach to the guys and maybe I needed to get the lesson from outside and from my assistant coaches last week, we preach a desire to excel and a fear of no failure all the time and if we want the players to be that way, we need to be that way as coaches.
That means calling what we need to call, rolling the dice, letting them play, being aggressive.
That’s the way I want our team to think and if we get the ball back with 40 seconds we want them to think score.
For them to do that, we need to do that.
You know I don’t want to talk about that game at all but what’s made us good as a coaching staff and as a team when we’ve been good is just always keeping the foot on the gas.
I want our guys to play like that all the time.
One of the things we have to fix is the turnover issue.
We’ve had too many drives where we’ve had a chance to score and give the other team the ball.
A part from that, I thought Dedrick made a huge step in the right direction today.
I think you saw a little more of the things that we were seeing as coaches in camp in a lot of different ways on offense, Dedrick being one of them.
He runs hard, he’s got good speed.
I think he did a better job of being patient and finding the hole today.
That was a pretty good one-two punch today with him and Mo [Washington].
I give coach (Jovan) DeWitt and coach (Zach) Crespo a lot of credit.
We’re a lot better on special teams this year, part of it is the kids, we have a lot better athletes, they’re taking it more seriously.
Those were big plays getting those punt blocks, now on the flip side of that we’ve got to get the PAT field goal thing figured out hopefully we’re at full strength at kicker soon but those were big plays give the kids credit and give the special teams guys a lot of credit.
Yeah that would be a good question for Coach DeWitt, but he told me we thought we had a chance to get him and he let it rip and it worked out for us.
I got to go back and look at it, one got blocked but the middle one got blocked off the edge so I’d imagine it’s not completely consistent but that’s never a problem until it’s a problem you don’t know if there’s a hole in your boat until you put it in the water, but once the other team sees there’s a hole there gonna keep trying to go through the same hole.
I’m not going to talk about injuries, I hope those two are fine, I thought Broc Bando did a good job coming in and we had some success with him in when [Brenden] Jaimes was out a couple different DBs came in, did a good job Braxton Clark came in did some good things.
I think Quinton Newsome is getting closer to being ready to play a lot for us so we hope we can go through a whole year without injuries, hope these aren’t serious but if we’re going to have anybody miss any time then the next guy has to be ready.
Oh that was great, the defense last week played three really good quarters and then the house of cards just kind of fell in on us.
We had to learn a lot of lessons as a football team coaches and players alike since I got to Nebraska.
I kind of feel like we’ve rounded a little bit of a corner, only had one penalty all night it was a good thing to get those kind of stops and get that kind of play in the fourth quarter even from our second string defense to play well with our second string offense so a lot of good things happen, that goal line stand is just kind of a symbol of what happened tonight when we really needed those guys they stepped up.
I had a big decision to make a week ago.
Who to make kick.
You know I talked to the kickers.
One was hurt before the game.
One was hurt during the game.
I trust Isaac (Armstrong) a lot because of how well he's done punting but Lane (McCallum) kicked well all week.
Practice too.
Just the first time I'd ever see him kick It was hard for me to roll the dice on that but we're going to keep giving him opportunities.
He's done a great job at practice.
Did a good job tonight.
It was a lot closer to a clean game.
We still got to execute better on offense when we get chances, particularly on turnovers.
But then again I give a lot of credit to them.
They really disrupted the defense just because of the nature of defense they play.
Running through with linebackers and twisting and punting and banging and you watch them on take and they had a bunch of TFLs and disrupted plays against their first two opponents including Utah.
It was closer to a clean game.
Fewer penalties, fewer turnovers.
Still think we can improve and execute better.
I told the team We were a lot better this week than we were last week but we have a long way to go yet.
No, he got bumped up a little bit.
He's going to be fine but that's the reason he didn't play in the second but the other guys did a great job.
You're starting to see when we get a couple of our guys, several of our guys with the ball in space a lot of things can happen.
Mo being one of them.
He took advantage of his opportunities today.
Isaiah's done a great job and Isaiah's going to be one of those poster boys for our walk-on program like Nebraska's used to having.
If he stays on the track that he's on, I anticipate he won't be a walk-on for too long.
He's got to keep earning it but he's been good on defense, he's been good on special teams.
We're glad he's on our team.
Kanawai's one of my favorite kids.
It's hard to get him to say anything but he's a grown up.
He's a pro about how he comes to work every day.
He got hurt a little bit in camp and he missed a bunch of time and I think that's gotten him out of rhythm.
And that happened with a few of our offensive guys.
And we're starting to slowly find a rhythm, including Kanawai.
I think we played with better pace and tempo today.
I thought the execution was a little better and the more the guys on offense play together, the better that'll be.
Anytime you get a win it’s a good thing.
This team needs to get some wins under its belt and get some confidence.
That being said, I think there’s a lot of good things and disappointing things that happened today.
I was really happy with the defense for the most part.
They gave up a couple of drives, but the defense won the game for us.
The defense that I’ve been seeing all of fall camp showed up today.
Got us the ball back, got some turnovers, scored on defense, scored on special teams.
We still did some sloppy things.
That’s as anemic of an offensive effort that I’ve been a part of for a long time.
That’s not the offense that I’ve seen all of fall camp, so we need to go back to the drawing board and figure out what happened today, but I give a ton of credit to them (South Alabama) and their coaching staff.
They did a good job.
Their kids came in and fought.
We have to have a great week because we play a good team and an ex-rival next week.
Only other thing to add, just want to clarify, the decision was made Thursday night or Friday morning between coaching staff, administration and campus that Mo Washington would serve a half-game suspension in addition to internal punishment and discipline he already has.
We won’t consider any conditional discipline for him until the matter is completely adjudicated.
So, the plan was to sit him the first half and play him in the second.
He’ll play going forward, and I won’t have any other comment about it until it’s adjudicated in California
You know I’m not sure.
We felt really good about the game plan coming in.
The one thing I want to go back and look at is if we had too much, but we have a lot of veterans on the offense and you wouldn’t think it would affect them.
We actually went into the game with fewer plays than we went into a bunch games the second half of last year with.
Again, I give a bunch of credit to them.
They were rolling down to a single high and getting extra people in the box making it hard to run, but we have to run the ball better than that.
Thought we made some bad decisions with the ball.
We were in bad second-down situations a lot.
Makes it hard to call a game when you’re not having success on first down.
So, we’ll take a look at it as a coaching staff.
I’m extremely excited with the way the offense has played through fall camp.
So hopefully this wasn’t indicative of what we’re going to get, but I think the guys are going to be hungry to come back and practice.
I’m not worried about Adrian because I know how he can play and who he is, but I don’t think he had his best game.
If that’s our fault for putting him in bad situations, we’ll get it fixed.
I don’t think he was quite as clean and decisive as I usually see him and when he takes off, I want to see him go because I know what kind of runner he is.
We put him in bad situations too being behind the sticks.
I think the snaps being high a lot through him off a little bit.
Having to play catch back there, and that’s probably a function of having a center that has had reps limited due to an injury during camp.
So those are all things that we have to look at and try to get fixed, but we have to get a lot cleaner on offense.
We’ve had a few little issues here and there, but nothing like last year and nothing like what I saw today.
Whether that’s first time playing, I don’t know.
But we’re going to work to get it clean.
We keep talking about the bad part of the game, but the good part of the game is that the defense made a lot of really good plays.
I was thrilled to see Cam Taylor make some great plays.
Eric Lee Jr., who came into the game as a back-up, made several great plays.
His interception for a touchdown was one of them, but the play before he covered a lot of grass in the middle of the field and got a breakout pass break-up.
We had pressure on the quarterback, we turned the ball over, we have to keep doing those things and then get the rest fixed.
Offensively, I don’t have any doubt on what we can do on offense.
We’ve been doing it a long time as a coaching staff and we have the right pieces to do it, so we’ll go back to the lab and figure it out.
The way they ran to the ball and hit.
I saw a lot of hacks around the ball, I saw a lot of different guys doing that and the fact that they were ball aware and ball disruptive today, getting hands on balls and creating turnovers.
We’ll get this offense juiced up and going and when we get it going, turnovers are going to help us win games.
Eric switched from corner to safety and he’s also playing some nickel and dime linebacker for us now.
Him and Marquel Dismuke both had good games today minus one defensive holding that we have to get cleaned up.
But those two guys have persevered through a lot.
They’ve been in my bad graces a little bit going back to when I first got here.
They’re doing everything the right way now.
They’re good teammates.
Marquel had a chance on JD’s punt return to light someone up.
With the new blind-side block rule, we’ve told our guys that a disciplined team is going to throw their hands up and shield and not get the penalty.
An undisciplined team is going to light him up anyway like Mike Rucker [former Husker defensive end] at Kansas State.
Marquel did the right thing, and I was so excited for him.
I went up to him on the bench because that was worth seven points to us.
I think it’s pretty much 50/50.
I think the defense is pretty excited and ready to build on it.
I think we had a lot of disappointed offensive guys on the outcome.
Since I’m calling the offense, I was one of those.
But again, I’m thrilled to see the Blackshirts that we expect, at least for most of the game.
We’ll get the offense fixed.
We have too many weapons and got players not to.
We held Cam [Jurgens].
We had a plan for a lot of these things going into the game and the plan with Cam was to put him on a play count.
We actually went past that play count a little bit.
But early in the third quarter, we were going to play him one more series, but then we got the defensive touchdown and the special team’s touchdown.
He had been sitting so long in the third quarter that we decided to shut him down.
I assume he’s healthy and ready to go and we’ll keep working him this week along with Will [Honas].
If you look to our secondary, we've got a lot of guys that persevered through the coaching change and what we were expecting of them, and now they're some of our best teammates and today some of our best players.
Lamar Jackson, Eric Lee, Marquel Dismuke, there's others.
Those guys were here when we got here and it takes a while to learn what we expect and want guys to do things and what the standards are.
Those guys aren't just living up to the standards now, they're setting other people to standards and setting a new standard.
I'm glad to see those guys having the success they're having and they deserve it.
You know, I didn't know heading into this game that there's a lot of buzz around us.
You know, we're ranked in the top 25.
We certainly didn't look like that type of team today.
I know we can be based on what I've seen in practice.
I didn't know if we'd be a little over-confident or not confident enough.
I don't really think any of that was the issue.
I just don't think that we executed very well for whatever reason, and we'll get it figured out.
Dylan did a good job.
You know, kickers have one job, they're supposed to kick and they need to get warmed up to kick and to make sure that they stay healthy for the five plays that they're in, in practice or during a game.
I'm being a little sarcastic, but I love Barret (Pickering).
He's got a little tweak right now so we decided to hold him out of this game.
It was good to see a walk-on kid from right here in town to come in and hit some kicks for us.
The kick before half would have been big for us, but first game I thought he did a really good job.
Just got to the locker room.
We're not going to talk about injuries a lot anyway.
Like I said, it was from administration, campus leaders and coaching staff.
I'm not going to add any other comment about it, it doesn't make any sense for me to add anything on an on-going legal matter.
Cam had a big game for us.
I saw him make some great hits, obviously the sack fumble.
The play at the end of the game when he got tackled at the end.
He can play all four different defensive back spots including nickel and he's a baller.
I can't say enough about their team and how they came in and fought today, and I can't say enough about our defense and how opportunistic they were and it's a good thing we played well on defense and special teams because offensively we weren't up to our standard.
I thought he had a good first day.
I think if the offense could have kept the ball longer, he could have gotten more opportunities.
He's going to be more versatile as time goes on and as he learns and is more comfortable in different spots.
Some of the guys on offense, we've got to get into a little bit of shape.
I think its got to do with nicks in training camp and missed time and are just getting back to healthy.
You know Kanawai [Noa] was that way and Wan’dale [Robinson] was that way and Cam [Jurgens] was that way and a few others, so that's one thing we'll look at, but I thought Wan’dale did some pretty special things when he had the ball in his hands, and we'll keep looking to get that done.